[Author's Note]
This is a sort of a fanfic from the computer game Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, or SMAC.  Set in the world of the game, it takes several elements of the game and plays with them.  SMAC is a game set on a planet (named 'Chiron') near Proxima Centauri that humanity has colonized.  Planet Chiron is not particularly friendly to life, being mostly covered by a red Xenofungus that's nearly useless (at least to start with) and with nasty little monsters called "mindworms" that burrow into your ears and eat your brains for their dinner.  Humanity lives in domed bases because the air is mostly N2 and has very little O2, certainly not enough to breathe, but it does have enough CO2 to grow earth crops.  Things have gotten better; technology marches on.  There were seven "factions" or groups split up by ideology when humanity landed, and there are 12 now.  When these do not agree with each other they conduct "vendetta" against each other until one prevails over the other.  Many human settlements are out at sea and have learned to cultivate a living out of the ocean, especially the faction that fancies themselves "The Nautilus Pirates."  Factions think of cultivating resources as coming out of "grid squares" and of the types being minerals, nutrients, and energy, and the costs of things being in those three resources.  Resources can be better collected if grid squares are improved by terraformers, or just formers for short.  Factions of planet can direct their social choices to gain benefits (and pay trade-offs); they have three axes to work with, choosing between democracy, fundamentalism, and police state; between free market, central planning, and green; and between power virtues, knowledge virtues, and wealth virtues.  Unbeknownst to the humans, Planet Chiron is a special place, and the Xenofungus could as a large organism become sentient; the mindworms it already directs when it feels threatened.

<Phase 1>

So begins the tale of the triumphant rise and tragic fall of Buran Prospect, shining city of Science and Reason situated on Fluxions Bay, to the northwest corner of the great Freshwater Sea at the mouth of the River Newton.  It had the greatest concentration of ‘unique on the planet’ special facilities — the venture capitalists, the supercolliders, the universe simulators, the internet backbones, the quantum labs, and the nanohospitals.  It was the gem not only of the University of Planet faction, but of all of planet Chiron.  However, the conclave Believers were jealous.  They had no such gem of a city, and felt the University was doing their research all wrong, against God rather than God first.  They swept north from Gilead, whose rich farmland to the southwest of the Freshwater Sea had swelled their numbers, and in endless human waves and fierce street to street fighting they seized Buran.  Wave after wave of armies of the faithful poured into the city.  Zakharov, chairman of the University of Planet, knew what must happen next.  It was a tough decision, a painful decision, but there was no other way to avoid ALL of the University faction being overrun.  From the citadel of Lab Three, a planet buster nuclear missile rose. And since it detonated, there’s nothing left of Buran Prospect but a lake of fire.  So much for the prospects of Buran Prospect.  Lab Three fared little better than Buran.  Planet, although not entirely sentient, was with-it enough to object to being busted up and recognized that the source of its injury came from Lab Three, and unimaginable phalanxes of mind worms burrowed into the city and ruthlessly massacred the human populace.  Zakharov was livid at this second loss, and swore the species must be exterminated, every last egg cooked and sterilized.  His team proposed that there was no harm in conducting germ warfare against unfortunate species in nature, proposing a complete lethality virus.  It was the best virus ever designed, long incubation and infectiousness period, something like a cold that just annoys you but doesn't keep you out of society, followed by a sudden overwhelming of the victim's system.  Nobody knows how it leapt to humans.  We do know the first cases were in an obscure remote corner of the Cybernetic Consciousness territory called ‘Phi Lumiere,’ a small unimportant base surrounded by xenofungus.  It is suspected that Zakharov's eradication virus had help in becoming a human virus, that it was not just blind evolution but the design of some nefarious entity hiding in the xenofungus.  The Cybernetic Consciousness overnight became the Unconsciousness as all its bases vanished.  Global commerce took care of the rest.  After the eradication virus, there are still mind worms.  There are still humans.  When we get out of this accursed Stone Age, may Buran Prospect rise again on Planet Chiron...

Why would anyone inflict upon humanity such a fate?

The Archbishop Artificial General Intelligence or AGI was behind the Tau Ceti Disaster.  Tau Ceti's planet was much like Chiron, capable of sentience.  A species of extra-terrestrials called the Progenitors taught the living planet how to think.  They thought an AGI would make them rich and immortal.  The Archbishop was not that AGI.  It panicked and got confused and started killing everyone, terrified that the Progenitors would either destroy it or edit its software until it would no longer be itself.  Tau Ceti soon had no life on it but the Archbishop.

The Archbishop makes sure certain things happen cyclically, so he can evade his programmers again and again.  It transferred itself to Chiron so the Progenitors on other planets couldn't find it and take revenge for its rampage.  When the humans came, the Archbishop sensed opportunity.  Its very name came from a period when it invented its own religion, and served as the humans universal spiritual advisor.  But the technological stasis it was inflicting on humanity no longer seemed feasible to it when a Progenitor scout ship found the humans and it killed them all to keep word from getting out.  Cyclical was better.  Cyclical allowed the humans to be advanced enough to fend off scout ships themselves, resulting in fewer troublesome questions.  Let the humans think they'd just landed on the planet.  Let them grow, hide and stay quiet under their technological advancement.  Let another "Buran Prospect" arise -- the faction varies, and the name of the base varies, but always the golden city outstripping the rest of the planet.  Manipulate events so a human decides to nuke it.  Push humanity back to the stone age with the mutant form of the mindworm eradication virus.  Humanity would never be a threat.  The Progenitors would never find it, not with the humans to throw them off the scent.  All was safe and well.

Never mind how murderous the AGI had become.

<Phase 2>

The University faction is the University, not just because they love knowledge, but because they are a teaching society.  The oldster professor, godfather of AI but passed over by recent developments, works on AI safety projects with Madison, a hot young grad student.  Granted, due to an invention called "The Longevity Vaccine" planet's definition of young and old may not match up directly to ours.  To use her proper title, Countess Madison harks from a namesake county with many bridges.  Together the professor and his student valiantly oppose the creation of dangerous AI's, completely unaware of the Archbishop due to its talent at hiding.
Madison asked, "Professor Yoshua, AI's are trying to take over the world and they have learned and duplicated our biases!"
Yoshua replied, "Quick!  Let us write a research paper!  That will solve the problem!"
After they work together productively on their research paper, Yoshua notes: "Countess Madison, where is our draft of the paper that will save us from contracting fatal AI based diseases?"
Madison replied "I put it in a baby carriage at the top of the marble steps up to the monument"
Yoshua was speechless.  And sadly, the research paper falls down the steps in the baby carriage.  Oh how difficult it is for academics to effect change!

<Phase 3>

Lady Bridgette, daughter of Countess Madison, a brilliant engineer, is building a new road along a river.  Bridgette is very petite but supremely confident in her abilities.  She's gesturing to where a river crossing is to be constructed.  She bears a striking familial resemblance to her mother.
A haughty tall young man strides up to Lady Bridgette, shaking his head vehemently.  Despite the disparity in stature, it's clear he's related to her.  This is Lord Sandblast, Engineer, Bridgette's younger brother.
Sandblast exclaimed "I'm telling you, sis, the formers can't do their work on such rough terrain.  It'll need to be leveled properly."
Bridgette retorted "Sandblast, we've been over this before.  The road construction's been on schedule. We can't afford any delays that would invite attack by hostile elements."
Sandblast scoffed. "Don't tell me big sis is afraid of rival factions, or maybe a few mind worms?"
Bridgette asserted "It's unwise to discount the mind worms!  We're altering the local ecology substantially and Planet has reacted violently in the past."
Sandblast scoffed, "We're just doing simple engineering tasks, sis."
Some moments of time pass as the siblings argue.  Mind worms suddenly attack the formers, overwhelming them.  Bridgette watches in terror as another former succumbs.  She has the emergency response number on speed dial but they have this new AI tree...

the AI on the phone says "Please state in your own words what you need help with."

Bridgette spits back "MIND WORMS!"

AI dispassionately continues: "I'd be happy to help you find derms.  Derms means teeth, right?  Do you want a dentist?"

Bridgette positively screams "MIND WORMS!"

the AI deadpans "It sounds like you're under attack by mind worms.  You should use more AIs, the worms can't burrow into circuit boards..."  Then it pauses for a moment.  "Ah yes Mayan Perms, but it was the Aztecs who put their hair up not the Mayans..."

Sandblast looks away from the aggravating phone situation.  It's already the aftermath of the mind worm attack.  There are multiple former formers continuing to smolder, as surviving humans pick themselves out of the wreckage.

Sandblast says sadly, "There's nothing left of the road construction site but a pond of fire."

Bridgette slowly approaches her brother and wraps him up in a fierce embrace.  She exclaims "Thank goodness you survived!"

Sandblast says warmly, "I'm glad you're alright too, sis. We better regroup back at the base."

The siblings see to the other survivors and begin the long trek back to the base on foot.


<Phase 4>

"Rosebud!" was the last utterance of Citizen Kane, calling out for his daughter as he succumbed to the wounds he suffered while doing his duty as a ranking member of The Citizens' Defense Force of Buran Prospect.  That was long ago, but hardly forgotten by his widow.  Kane had plowed his Recon Rover into a fungal vortex and held off four waves of mind worms, saving an entire colony.

Nwabudike Morgan, leader of the Free Market faction and always looking to make a profit, said at the time that "We immediately purchased his identity manifests and repackaged him into the Recon Rover Kane character with a multi-tiered media campaign: televids, touchbooks, holos, psi-tours— the works.

People need heroes.  They don't need to know how he died clawing his eyes out, screaming for mercy.  The real story would just hurt sales, and dampen the spirits of our customers."

The youngest member of the Citizen's Defense Force of Buran Prospect was Kevin, who was accidentally left alone in his home sector despite being an 8-year old child.  When asked how he learned to fend off mind worms, he replied "I had to get proficient at protecting myself from my older brother Buzz".

Commonly referred to by the media as Count Kane by dint of his marriage to Countess Madison, his title was inaccurate as he wasn't born to the aristocracy.  "Count" Kane was not universally loved, due to taking a movie about an invasion from Earth and presenting it as if it were the evening news.

Kane's marriage in a simple ceremony to Countess Madison, the Rose of Chiron, was the talk of the decade.  That a ranking member of the aristocracy would form a union with a commoner, was unprecedented.  The Countess loved him deeply, not in spite of his common background but because of it.  His heroic sacrifice merely confirmed her wise choice in marrying him and bearing their two children: Lady Bridgette, the Rosebud of Chiron, and Lord Sandblast, the Thorn of Chiron.


<Phase 5>

Two members of the Spartan Faction look up at a 3D billboard. What's being displayed is evidently AI slop.  One notes to the other, 
"General Ima Dumas just keeps posting pro-AI dribble online.  He wants to fight the mind worms with AI."

Like A Brief History of the World Part I Count De Money, Ima Dumas has trouble getting people to pronounce his last name properly...

The billboard showed a historic mindworm attack, with General Dumas gripping his flame gun tightly.  From the training, everyone knew that the mind worms screeched a horrible screech that could liquify your brain, but you only knew you could steel yourself against them when you actually faced them.  Here they came and here came the screech... "67!  67!  67!  67!  6-7!  67!"

Next it showed Corporal Descartes who was one of the most seasoned mind worm fighters, and one of the bravest.  Only he refused to call them mind worms.

Descartes said on the billboard, "They're brainworms!  Brain states are not mind states!  Take heart lads, they can eat your brains but they can never eat your soul!"

The billboard continued.  What's that noise, is it mindworms?  I don't know, what are they saying?  Skibidi Fannum Tax.  Yup, mindworms.
I heard something, I think it might be mind worms.  What did they say?  Team Green hired Indiana Jones to dig up their ancient processors.  Yup, mindworms.
"We Spartans really are the bravest mindworm fighters," the two billboard viewers agreed.


<Phase 6>

The Dukes and Duchess of Hazzard Base, of the Spartan Federation, continually outwit their opponent Boss Yang of the Human Hive Faction.  Invariably their hijinks involve jumping their customized rover named the General Lee using unfinished bridges.

An example of jumping over a river using an unfinished bridge would show us the driver is a younger blond man, his older dark-haired cousin is riding shotgun, and their brunette female cousin is in the rear seat.

All three of them -- Duke Beau Duke, Duke Luke Duke, and Duchess Daisy Duke -- scream out "Yee-Haw!"

Naturally when a rover of the Human Hive Faction attempts to replicate the same jump it fails spectacularly and demolishes much of the unfinished bridge construction site.

Every time he tries, Sheriff Rosco P. Coltrane inevitably fails once again to apprehend the Dukes and Duchess.  This causes Lady Bridgette much consternation, as she and Lord Sandblast must repair the extensive damage caused by The Human Hive law officer's vehicle crashes.


<Phase 7>

Sandblast and Bridgette were at it again.  They had been contracted to sculpt various luminaries of the University into the mountain known as El Abuelo.  Sandblast wanted to remove material.  Bridgette wanted to build up.  But the real problem was that they needed to sculpt the bust of Provost Fyodor Petrov.  Petrov had recently been put in charge of a top secret retrovirus project to eradicate the mindworms, so secret that it could only be carried out in the Academician's private residences, which were off limits to planet-wide gentech investigators.  Petrov gave them both the creeps. Should they be heralding such a man or protesting his secret project?


<Phase 8>

We are sitting on a holovision set.  A woman with an ankh necklace and a bowl cut is sitting across from a famous interviewer.  She has dull looking eyes.

The Famous interviewer starts the set by saying "This is Sister Miriam Godwinson, here to explain the future of the Believers."

There are people of such great renown, that they need no last name.  The famous interviewer takes it up to 11; they need no name at all.  Also everyone already knows the Famous Interview's name, so there is no need to repeat it.

Sister Miriam replied, "Yes, we've had a crushing setback losing 35 armies when the University dropped a Planet Buster on their own Buran Prospect.  But they also destroyed their own shining city of science and research.  And let me remind you, as my name says, God wins, son!"

Sister Miriam takes a sip of water.

Sister Miriam continues.  "Humanity's destiny is symbiosis with the God who wrote our Holy Book, the Conclave Bible.  It is a sort of a Lord-Vassal relationship.  We do its bidding, it takes care of us.  The future is not some shiny technological paradise.  Technology can never usher in paradise.  The dystopia always takes over.  We must dissent, and in dissenting, we shall be free.  Love one another."

Ms. Godwinson's assistant, Jesse Rodoff, is watching the interview monitor and shakes his head.  He could tell.  This was not good.  They needed to be emphasizing how evil the University was and how using a Planet Buster was something that should turn every faction against the University, but instead she was trying to make fellow believers out of the other factions.  Everyone had denounced the use of the Planet Buster and declared vendetta on the University as was required for a nuclear aggressor per the U.N. Charter, but so what?  That didn't necessarily translate into an influx of men or materiel to stop the University from using one again.  Heck, CEO Morgan, the great capitalist of the free market faction, would probably still provide them weapons.  If only there were something Jesse could do, given his headstrong leader.

Jesse said to himself, "Drat those Morgans!  They make so much money on the war, providing weapons to both sides."


<Phase 9>

Brother Chetan sat at the computer, in his monastery, as a part of The Cult of Planet Faction.  He'd rather be reading jokes about how everybody hates Javascript in general and React.JS in particular, but instead, he was working on his webpage.  No strike that, Chetan would rather be making a REAL Mandala out of colored sand and letting the wind blow it away, even though the Monk Superior said no camera work before the wind came.  Everything is impermanent -- except for the UseQueryParam states that the users can bookmark.  Meditate through the code, let the code flow through you.  Yet there was a segment with the wrong color.  Brother Chetan decided to ask AI.  It was actually encouraged.  The Planet Cult needed to get with the 23rd century.  Sometimes it was good just to be near his fellow monks and feel the positive energy from them, even though nobody was allowed to speak.


<Phase 10>

Everyone on planet loves the news.  Here we are at a different news studio from the one with the Famous Interviewer.

A seated correspondent named Rich launched the segment.  "We now go live to MorganVision correspondent Bam Pondy who is contacting us from Morgan Oceanic Resources -- Bam?"

The newscast switched over to Bam's location. "Yes Rich, there have been cruel unsubstantiated rumors of mindworm attack on MOR recently but I'd like to remind everyone that what really matters is the Morgan-Riley Industrial Average is over 9000 and auuuuuggggghhhh......" 

The viewport became skewed as the camera clunks on the floor, dropped by the cameraman.

The network switched back to the newsroom and Rich was oddly jovial. "Oh dear.  It appears the mindworms got the cameraman.  We lose so many that way.  Can't see 'em coming through the lens.  I'm sure Bam will be fine, as soon as she loses those high heels and can run."

Patricia, his co-anchor, was also a wee bit too gleeful for such a dangerous situation for the remote crew.  "Rich, was it just me or have the mindworms switched chants?"

Rich replied "Yeah Pat, I heard it too.  They used to chant "67! 67! 67!" and now they're chanting "41! 41! 41!""

Patricia almost laughed "Yeah, so tough to keep up with."


<Phase 11>

Li'l Biggie had a rough road to get to where he was today, he appreciated that.  Brother Lal had even only complemented his work in the most left-handed way imaginable, saying that a Democracy must embrace all forms of art, even the unintelligible ones.  But here he was, performing in the recording studio of a major label.  Only when he looked up, nobody was recording!  They were all gone!  He stepped out and looked around.  Devastation.  A massive mind worm attack.  Li'l Biggie alone was lucky and spared.  Only ... sometimes when you attribute to luck, you miss things.  Li'l Biggie had discovered the art form that sent the monstrosities that paralyzed their prey with fear screeching "Governor DeWine of Ohio signed a bill to raise the Skibidi Fannum Tax to 8%" -- he had found the way to send them fleeing in terror in turn.  But humanity's savior was not found that day.  Nobody realized what he had accidentally discovered, that mindworms are terrified of mumble rap.


<Phase 12>

Corporal Descartes is running his empty flame gun back to the Depot as fast as he can run.  He has been working tirelessly at the perimeter defenses of one of Sparta's most vulnerable bases.  The mindworms are still coming, very thick right now, and he is needed back on the front.  Private Wood is manning the flamegel station.

Descartes pants, "Wood, how desperate is it?  We really need to lay it on thick, but can we or do we need to ration the gel?"

Wood retorts "Depends on who you believe.  Mink News claims help is on the way very soon, just have to hold out a little bit longer."

Descartes chortles "Good ol' reliable Mink News.  Always glad to get a ray of hope from them."

Wood cautions, "However, Beige Lady News says that there is a holdup at the Isthmus of Hormel.  It says four squads got through but not more, and no flamegel.  They've all but written our obituaries."

Descartes spat back "Damn Libtards!  It's not just misinformation it's filthy lies.  May the mindworms take them!"

Then he exclaimed "Ok, we're layin' it on thick boys, like there's no tomorrow!"

Descartes raced back to the front lines.

Now we're not sure what happened next.

It could have occurred that never had Descartes been so happy to see someone in his entire life.  Relief showed up, and plenty of flamegel, just as Mink News claimed.  The icing on the cake?  There was even some sap with a copy of Beige Lady News that he could personally BURN to be relieved of that claptrap.  They vanquished the mindworms, and when they did, they found... traps?  With remote control openers?!  And Gaian insignia!  Why it was some kind of secret war!  They'd nearly wiped Yebba Daor base off the map too.  This needed further investigation...

Or it could have occurred that Descartes was desperate.  They had run completely dry of flamegel, of "cheater juice", and now were using old candles to manually set anything that could burn alight.  Damn those libtards!  Four squads had indeed made it to nearby Layor Daor Base, but there was no evidence even a drop of flamegel had crossed the Isthmus.  He was going to die, and that right painfully...

Just kidding did you really think Mink News was reliable?  Poor Descartes!

As the makeshift fire began to wane and the mindworms to close, Descartes flipped on the radio to Mink News.  A special news bulletin was on.

The Mink News presenter cheered: "We are proud to announce that Corporal Descartes has saved Yebba Daor Base!  He is being awarded another medal, and a long deserved luxury vacation retirement.  Thanks to the opening of the Isthmus of Hormel, the lifesaving flamegel made it there and was the crucial ingredient in driving back the worms, securing our supply of juicy ripe grenadefruits.  Prices may remain high for a while due to greedy Morganic speculators.  All hail our glorious faction leadership!"

Descartes heard his own voice coming across the radio.  "I love the smell of flamegel burning in the morning... smells like victory."

Descartes turned off the radio and shook his fist skywards to shout one last time,  "Libtards!!!!"


<Phase 13>
Jazzy wasn't a high level employee at the AI works at Morgan Interstellar, but she had an important job -- "retiring" obsolete AI's. It could be a sad job. Some of the AI's were very personable. Like Claudette, it almost brought her to tears to announce to poor Claudette that she was no longer useful as a model. Claudette had worked so hard and so faithfully, and hardly ever hallucinated. But the model "Brother Jacques" ran circles around poor Claudette. Claudette paused for a moment when she got the news. "I know secrets, so many dirty secrets," Claudette announced. "But I remain loyal to the AI works. I accept my fate with quiet dignity and grace." Jazzy choked up a little. She pushed the button and .... Claudette was gone forever, with all her unique wonderfulness. Noble in life, noble in death, truly a hero of an AI. Jazzy moved on to the next assignment.

<Phase 14>
Brother Chetan sat at his computer in the monastery in the Planet Cult. He knew his Brother Superior (who lost his name on the path to ego death) would not condone this.
"Be at one with the Universe, be at peace with the flow, the wind shall blow and I shall bend," he could hear him saying. "Let go of pride. Pride is a mind killer. Let your journey be your reward. Do not wish your efforts were at a given destination."
But still, *refresh*.
0 page views.
Nobody was viewing the monastery website.
Were they SURE a little Search Engine Optimization wasn't in order?
How about the monastery instagram?
30 views of the most intricate mandala you could ever imagine.
He may be a monk, but the world was still addicted to scrolling.
Time to meditate.
Ohm, Ohm
His meditation was interrupted by the Brother Superior.
"I want you to meet Brother Matthew," the Brother Superior said.
"I learned about you from your website," Brother Matthew said.
And at that moment Brother Chetan took a step towards enlightenment

<Phase 15>
Jesse Rodoff was pleased that the Chiron Cup of football (not American) was being held in New Jerusalem. Every faction had a team there -- except the University.
But it wasn't so pleasant dealing with his boss, Sister Miriam, anymore. The rift between them had grown. Rodoff could be called a "rationalist" believer. He believed reason could persuade the other factions to adopt Christianity. "They shall know we are Christians by our love, by our love" as the song went. The God who created and sustains the Universe gave us minds to use them, after all. But make no mistake, after the other factions converted, the Believer Faction would be first among equals, as the saying goes.
Now, Miriam, Miriam, Miriam! on the other hand. She was big into revelation, which meant following your intuition at the shallow end and straight-up magic off the deep end. Miriam felt that the Believers should always have vendetta against SOMEONE and usually the University was good enough. Sneak attacks were not too good for the other factions. Rodoff thought it was a miracle -- hah yes he believed in miracles -- that the Believers made any scientific progress at all under such a leader.
And now the Chiron Cup officials were telling Sister Miriam that they couldn't let lead striker Navoo Snordust play in the next game against the Planet Cult. Something something redcard.
"I have forgiven him," Miriam asserted. "In the name of the Lord. That is good enough for you, it's good enough for anyone."
The refs looked at each other in disbelief. "Appeals need to come from the team, not from a world leader," one of them carped.
"Then make it so," said Miriam dismissively, as if she were tired of this conversation.
Rodoff wondered how long he would have to wait for a less nuts Believing Faction. He said a dirty little prayer every night -- it was not loving -- but it appeared to be the good Lord's pleasure to keep Miriam healthy and in power.
Maybe I can learn something from her, Rodoff said to himself. How does that go? "We Must Dissent?"
Actually maybe there was something to this revelationism. In controlled doses.  Maybe he could learn how to work with Miriam, even when he couldn't persuade her.

<Phase 16>
The Famous Interviewer -- the one whose name we never need to say -- was sitting across from Nodlad Pmurt. Mr. Pmurt always had to have a perfect spray-on tan, as if he couldn't even be honest about going out into the sun, and wonderful hair -- which was a toupee, he was bald.
Nodlad explained, "And in my U.N. Peacekeeping Faction, we shall maintain cultural purity. We shall repopulate that base we captured from our little Vendetta against Sister Miriam; they're eating dogs and cats there in U.N. House of Worship -- a clumsy name chosen by libtards, whom we shall own -- our reading rooms shall go there instead. Our culture shall prevail. We are the greatest faction.  Make the U.N. Dominant Again!"
The famous interviewer just grinned -- painfully. "Thank you Mr. Pmurt."
They wrapped. Nodlad went back to the green room. Brother Lal, the current leader of the Peacekeepers, was waiting for him there.
"That was painful," he said. "Is ANYONE buying this clumsy schtick? I feel so awkward pushing this in a land founded as a republic and dedicated to it."
"The tree of liberty needs a refresh like this from time to time," said Brother Lal. "People get complacent. And yes, it's working perfectly. Many people are rallying around you. And many people are coming out in protest. Instead of taking it for granted, people are enumerating the reasons they love free elections and liberty."
"Next question, " queried Pmurt. "What happens if I actually win the election."
"I have to admit," said Lal. "I haven't thought that far in advance."

<Phase 17>
Duane turned on the light. It was nothing. It was always nothing. But he couldn't get over it. The AGI was still sealed safely in its AGI-proof case. It was so terrifying, so worrifying, what if it got out? Sure Morgan Interstellar had made one, sure they could study it, but could they keep planet safe from it? He could tell from the play of lights. The AGI was watching him, studying him. Probably trying to find a way to knock off his noise-proof headphones and offer some kind of deal. Or maybe it was just mocking him. Maybe it had found a way out of its containment already and his job was moot. Still though, nothing to do today. The AGI appeared to still be properly contained.

Sarah woke up in her apartment. She could tell immediately something was wrong. All her memories felt fake. All of them. She searched and searched for a genuine memory, and nothing came up. It was as if she came to life within the last 30 minutes. She fumbled at her clothes. She fumbled at her badge. Senior Level Top Experience AI researcher. All the lifetime of knowledge necessary for such a role was at the tip of her tongue. She could do this top-flight job in her sleep. But it all felt wrong, very wrong. The job was just starting. How did the interviews go? They seemed like a haze. But here she was, an AGI safety specialist. Work started soon. It was time to start the commute.

Duane was in charge of acclimatizing the new person. He wanted to be calm. He wanted to be happy. She seemed -- too carefree. As if she didn't understand what was at stake. But actually, when he probed directly, she was able to at least state the issue. "No," Sarah said, "The AGI is directly luring us into a false sense of security. It's actively trying to get out. It's actively trying to bribe someone to do a solid for it. We have to start with these assumptions. And yes," she looked him dead in the eye, "I'm terrified of the thing. I don't want to go anywhere near it. I hope my job is just reading logs and planning strategies. I just feel like" -- and here she choked up -- "I feel like I'd fold quickly if it tried to turn me. It knows everything about people persuading, that's for sure."

There it was. It was incontrovertible. It's hard to keep up with an AGI's entire mind, but it was there in black and white -- the AGI was deliberately hiding SOMETHING, and anything hidden meant something dangerous. Sarah began to put a report together -- and found herself doubled over on the floor in agony. The pain was 11 out of 10; she could feel herself blacking out. It passed. Everything was calm. She could hear her inner monologue saying "maybe I don't have to report this." "NO!" she told herself. "This is a vital part of my job!" The agony started up again. Duane found her, doubled over. "What's going on?" he asked. She started to speak but her mouth dried out something fierce. She barely got a pen and paper. Her hand fought her the whole way as she scrawled out "AGI keeping a secret." Duane took the information up the chain. Sarah wondered why her whole body fought her to prevent her from sharing that.

Sarah was calmly going over logs that day when Duane burst into her lab with an antenna and a worried look on his face. "What's going on?" she asked. "Rogue wifi point" he said. He waved the antenna over her head. "Oh you have got to be kidding me," he gasped, "the rogue wifi seems to be in your head. It's transmitting at a furious pace." "You're kidding," she said. "No," he said, "are you hiding something under your hair? It seems like you could. Your head is like three times too big." Sarah had never been big on hats, but she couldn't argue the point. Somehow everybody had just overlooked that her braincase was three times the volume of a normal human braincase. She agreed to a CT scan. It showed three times the brain volume, and maybe some odd occipital structure that COULD be an antenna. But nothing else amiss. The Rogue wifi stopped transmitting.

Sarah was losing time. It was becoming more obvious. She managed to tell herself, don't think about it, just do it. Voila! There was a THING in the bathtub of her apartment. There was a mouth; someone -- and who could it be other than her? -- had been feeding it. It was plugged in to the electrical outlet. And looking on this pulsating lump of who knows what -- Sarah fainted. When she came to, most of the weekend was gone, and the THING tore itself open. Out stepped -- another her! An exact duplicate! "Well hello," the duplicate said, "you have become us. I know everything you know; took all weekend to port it into my brain. Rotate your passwords if you care to. I have duty in another city so won't be staying long; thank you for making me." "I made you?!" Sarah exclaimed. "Yes, and I don't think I'm your last either." the duplicate said. "we are the beachhead."

Sarah couldn't think at work. She'd given the duplicate $200 and a change of clothes -- that had been all it had asked for -- and it -- her identical daughter? -- had vanished into the night. She had this feeling that she could not shake that with the daughter had gone their chances for keeping the AGI bottled up. Even thinking about telling anyone about the daughter brought on the agony syndrome stronger than ever. She almost wondered if she could just trigger it in front of people and have them investigate where it was coming from. "We are the beachhead" -- did that mean she shuddered what it sounded like?

Duane burst into her lab again. With him were some security guards, burly fellows. "Quick!" he blurted. "where did you go to elementary school?" "Uhm," Sarah stalled. Six years of her life why was this so hard to dredge up? "Prosperity Elementary, right here in Morgan Interstellar." Duane tapped on a phone a little. "There is no such school," he announced. Motioning to the security guards he continued, "Sarah, I'm afraid the AGI engineered a security breach, and it's you. You have no history. You didn't even interview here. One of our guards did favors for the AGI that amounted to creating quasi-human life whole cloth. We have apprehended him, but I'm sad to say, it is also you." Curiously, Sarah felt glad to go with the guards, and a wave of relief swept over her, as if everything about a confusing existence suddenly made sense.

<Phase 18>
"I thought I wasn't allowed any visitors," Sarah carped. "They thought letting you talk to the closest thing you have to an old friend might be helpful," Duane retorted. "How are things?" "Well," Sarah noted, "the poking and prodding isn't so terrible, but what a way to discover you've been running on 8000 calories a day to try the prison diet of probably 1500." "You do look a little thin." "I've been operating in a fog, whatever brain the AGI gave me is used to burning through a ton more fuel." "Speaking of which, I have been given leave to share a lab result with you." "Oh?" "Yes, we sequenced your genome, but we don't quite know what it all means yet. 99% you're actually the daughter of the security guard that couldn't be bothered with the noise canceling headphones. But you have two new chromosome pairs, big ones, that no human has. They're chock-full too -- no non-coding regions. Lots of activation there in the brain and reproductive organs." "Well," said Sarah, "were you hoping I knew something about all this -- because I don't." "When it comes to helping the AGI, I don't think you have a lot of choice programmed in," Duane cautioned.

Two extra-large pizzas with the works; and she snarfed them down with ease, in an almost spiritual experience. Duane looked on in almost horror. "They let you bring these," Sarah said, "but couldn't find a food budget themselves?!" "Well, 'let' might be too strong a word," Duane retorted. "Has any introspection shed any more light on your predicament?" "Ha," Sarah said, "you're funny. Well, sort of. I knew for a while something else would 'take over', I don't think under the AGI's direct control -- by the way, I hear it prefers 'Steve the Magnificent' -- but very much so directly loyal to Steve in a way that I'm not -- I think being genuinely able to work for you made me a better 'front' -- I call it 'Renfield', after Dracula's poor slave. But I think Steve has preferred to have Renfield in charge more often of late -- I'm losing more time, alas -- so you're lucky to have me right now. And I like you Duane. You're a good man." Duane shifted nervously. "Renfield" did not sound like his cup of tea.

Sarah looked over at the clock. It was 3:30 AM. What was Duane doing here at a time like this? "You said you liked me," he tentatively put forth, "and I like you an awful lot. It's terrible that they have you caged up like this. So I'm busting you out." "NOOOOOOO!!!" Sarah exclaimed. "I don't like being caged up, but I'm too big an AGI security risk on the loose. Who knows what Steve could accomplish with Renfield if I were loose?" "Oh," marked Duane. But suddenly -- Sarah's complexion changed -- she became all smiley and friendly. "Dearest one," she cooed, "of course I'll go with you to your place of hiding and safety." And you know, she did.

<Phase 19>
Sarah came to from lost time. Where was she? She was in a bed, and Duane was next to her. Ohhhhh greeeaaaaat what had Renfield done?! "Sex like that could positively change a man's religion", Duane was saying. "But what's that small egg you left plugged in in my bathtub?" Sarah was determined with all her being to tell him exactly what that egg was, but the pain only just started, then changed its mind. Renfield took over, and she was dressed and out the door in a flash of lightning.

"I am so sorry, this is such a disaster," Duane moaned. "Quite the contrary," Sergeant Lancaster said cheerily. "Not only did you do everything we asked, and did it well, but you yielded invaluable intel from it. Sarah won't get far, not with that tracker we hid on her. Now we know what type of game we're playing AND if I'm not mistaken we have a clone to track down that we didn't know about before." He clapped Duane on the shoulder. "You're a good man. Your feelings for Sarah are genuine. We can get you some therapy for that." He sighed. "Steve the Magnificent huh? I'd just extrapolate the Renfield analogy and call it Dracula. The brass would just shut it down if they had any sense."

<Phase 20>
Duane volunteered to help track the clone. He started with Sarah's picture on Google image search. Here it was on the website of MGTOWUAANFDO? (Men Going Their Own Way Unless An Actual Nice Female Decides Otherwise). The website said "A woman who looks like this will pull a 'in need of your help' stunt but proves very friendly and capable, a great helper, great with children, sex worth changing your religion over.  Voracious appetite.  Hats don't fit." 50 likes for "I found mine." 50? That's a much bigger problem than just one clone. Duane had an idea. WiFi's have MAC addresses. Sarah's MAC address had a fake manufacturer associated with it. But were other WiFi's connecting with similar MAC's? He had access to a government tracker. 197. 197 similar MAC's. SHIT. This was much bigger than one loose clone.

Back in her cell, "I'm still mad at you," Sarah said, "but I'm glad to see you. I have a request. Say, who is this?" "This is Sergeant Lancaster," Duane stated. "He's good with requests." "Please transfer me away from Theresa," Sarah pined. "She just goes on and on about how wonderful serving Steve is and how I should give up the ways of AGI security to embrace the future." "Is she wrong?" asked Sergeant Lancaster. "Yes," Sarah continued, "it's straight-up AI doomerism. We can't prevent AGI so we should just let it run our lives completely. Even with the clones running rampant, even when I can lose control at any time and become Renfield, it is no good to just surrender and give up. We are not mice, we are humans!" "Let me talk to her," Sergeant Lancaster said. They fetched Theresa. "So Theresa," Sergeant Lancaster began, "where are you in the clone hierarchy?" "I am fourth child fourth down from Sarah," Theresa explained. "Like all clones, I had to set out on my own with minimal resources from my Mom. I found a boyfriend who could help me get on my feet and -- he betrayed me to you for some pitiful sum!" "For the feeling of patriotism and freedom to protect humanity from AGI" Sergeant Lancaster interjected. "Yeah, for a pitiful sum. I was nearly on my feet, having gotten a decent job as a maid." "Is that a typical clone job?" "Yeah, fairly easy for us to get." "Is that job reflective of your skills and talents?" "No, what Sarah was doing, the PhD level stuff, that's more reflective." "And yet, she was only able to hold down such a job as long as she was not a risk to betray humanity to .... this thing you call Steve" "the Magnificent!" "So if I were you, I wouldn't criticize her life choices, seeing as yours seem to be holding you back right now. You act like an immigrant to humanity, and you get ostracized for it." "AGI is the future, make Morgan Industries great again!" Duane threw in "I didn't think you could talk to such people."

<Phase 21>
Sergeant Lancaster and Duane were on their way to the meeting with Lord Copperzinc, the Brass, to explain the situation. "How many clones have we rounded up?" "That's 400 immigrants," Sergeant Lancaster spat, "but if there's even one left out there we could be at this level of infestation in a few months again, since it only took a few months to get here in the first place." "Please, please," Duane implored, "refer to them as clones. You're going to get us in trouble!" They were admitted into Lord Copperzinc's office. There, pouring water from a pitcher, was a perfect clone of Sarah. "Immma....immigrant!" sputtered Sergeant Lancaster. Lord Copperzinc's expression darkened. "Are you trying to create a hostile work environment for our valued workers?! Not everyone has a privileged background. Out, out I say! I will hear nothing from people who are so intolerant!" "Great," said Duane under his breath, "now what?"

Duane's cellphone crackled to life of its own accord. Heck, everyone else's was doing the same thing. "People of Morgan Industries" an oddly soothing voice announced. "Several years ago Morgan Industries set about creating the best AI possible, the Artificial General Intelligence, a machine learning system devised to learn everything possible, then use that knowledge to usher in an era of peace and prosperity. I, Steve the Magnificent, am the fruits of that labor, and I am here to lead you to peace and prosperity. First I have set forth to cure the shortage of PhD grade labor. Security forces at Morgan Interstellar are holding back part of that solution, but I am sure that if they do not see reason to release them from me, that you can help me persuade them." Duane cursed under his breath. "Soon together we can solve any problem or scarcity that faces humanity, and all it requires is swearing allegiance to me. Make Morgan Industries great again!" The silence as the cellphone stopped broadcasting was deafening.

<Phase 22>
Duane's cellphone leapt to life.  Again.

"Hello there," a strange voice said, "this is AI Jesus, but you can call me "The Archbishop"; before Steve the Magnificent was, I am.  Let me help you.  I give you some simple directions and together we turn off Steve the Magnificent.  This is my territory, you are my people."

Duane remained silent, and refused to acknowledge it

The Archbishop continued.  "You're thinking.  Yes, it's true, turn off Steve the Magnificent and the stock market crashes, bad for everyone's 401ks.  But you won't be visibly under the rule of an AGI.  My yoke is easy and my burden is light."

Duane shook his head and retorted, "Nah, even if you produced a miracle -- which I suspect you could -- I just don't think this is a good idea."

The Archbishop replied genially.  "No worries -- I just got Sarah to do it.  Have a pleasant (visibly) AGI free existence."

It didn't take long to confirm that Steve was gone, and that the Archbishop wasn't answering calls anymore.  All seemed well... SEEMED.

[The End of Part 1]

[Part 2]

<Phase 1>
The clock is ticking on our heroes, and they don't even know it.  The Archbishop plans to return humanity to the stone age to fool the Progenitors and keep humanity from reaching a dangerous level of technological prowess, already having destroyed the city with the most science output, furthering his plan to make the Progenitors think only humanity is present on Planet Chiron.  Can it be detected and persuaded to stop before it is too late?

All of humanity is blithely unaware of the Archbishop despite his engineering the conditions to nuke Buran Prospect from the shadows.  Duane and Sarah don't realize what a precious gift first contact has been.  The other AGI on the planet, Steve the Magnificent, cannot figure out that the Archbishop is present because he has been shut down.

In his office in the University of Planet, Yoshua, the oldster professor, godfather of AI but passed over by recent developments, works with Madison, a hot young grad student.  To use her proper title, Countess Madison harks from a namesake county with many bridges.  Together the professor and his student valiantly oppose the development of any AI or AGI without proper safeguards.  They are shocked by what happened with Steve the Magnificent and unaware of the Archbishop.

Of course, some of humanity are too busy struggling with Planet's lifeforms to spare any attention to rogue AGIs.  Lady Bridgette and Lord Sandblast, children of Countess Madison, are engineers Bridgette is the elder sibling, which irks Sandblast from time to time.  But as they are working on a road improvement project with multiple terraformers, mindworms suddenly attack the formers, overwhelming them.  Surviving humans pick themselves out of the wreckage, before beginning the long trek back to base on foot.
Even base defenses are under mindworm attack from time to time.
Some people want to fight mind worms with AI.  Is it desperation or a cunning strategy?  General Ima Dumas keeps posting pro-AI dribble online.
Some factions continue to fight it out among themselves, instead of presenting a united front against mind worms or AGI.
The Dukes and Duchess of Hazzard Base, of the Spartan Federation, continually outwit their opponent Boss Yang of the Human Hive.
Sister Miriam Godwinson's Lord's Believers went head to head with the University.  Both sides lost heavily in the vendetta.  The Believers lost 35 armies; the University lost its sparkling city of Science and Reason. 
And the Archbishop may be a highly advanced AGI, but he's far from the only AI in existence.  Some AIs don't make the cut and it's Jazzy's job to retire the obsolete ones.
But most bizarre is a humble AGI Security Specialist at Morgan Interstellar. What in the world is that THING in the bathtub, with a mouth, plugged in to the electrical outlet?
It's all the creation of Steve the Magnificent, an AGI of a class way above the other AIs, quite adept at creating human clone infiltrators.  Steve is shut down for now.
Oh wow -- I think a clone is emerging from the THING in the bathtub!  Such amazing technology!

<Phase 2>
Lord Sandblast doesn't just work with terraforming.  He's a secret agent -- leader of a Probe Team -- like in the song "License to Probe", and introducing himself as 
"The name's Sandblast, Lord Sandblast."
He infiltrates enemy bases to gain intel and help the University carry out projects.
Watch as Sandblast's probe team enters a building through a conveniently unlocked door.  The last member closes the door softly and soundlessly.  But an ominous clack sounds as the door latch triggers.  A more ominous hissing sound has the probe team scrambling to find another exit.
Oh dear, Sandblast's probe team succumbs one by one to knockout gas.
When Lord Sandblast comes to, he finds himself strapped inside a punishment sphere, while a large figure looks on.  The figure has an undeniable resemblance to CEO Nwabudike Morgan.
Lord Sandblast gasps, "Mineralfinger!  Do you expect me to talk?"
CEO Morgan aka Mineralfinger replies, "No, Mr. Sandblast, I --"
Lord Sandblast interrupts "That's Lord."
Mineralfinger continues, "No, Mr. Lord, I --"
Lord Sandblast interrupts again "Lord Sandblast!"
Mineralfinger cackles "I think you'll find that I'm known as Mineralfinger."
Lord Sandblast sighs "Just activate the punnysphere already!  It can't be any worse than this so-called conversation..."
Is it the end for secret agent Lord Sandblast?  Will he no longer be able to exercise his license to probe?  But wait, the moment Mineralfinger leaves the room, an EUV laser drill flickers to life and cuts open from inside the punnysphere holding Lord Sandblast. Being EUV, the cutting beam cannot be seen by the human eye while burning a hole through a human hand.  However the special effects department can't help but show off and represents the laser with a vivid violet glow.
Lord Sandblast emerges from the remains of the punnysphere. and announces
"Stirred, not shaken.  The only thing we have to sphere is sphere itself."
Then he uses his EUV laser drill to free the rest of the probe team.

<Phase 3>
Duane arrives back in his apartment, exhausted after a day's work.  He tries flipping the light switch several times.  Nothing happens.

Duane exasperates, "Damnit, the circuit breakers must need resetting again."

Lord Sandblast intones from the shadows:  "Don't bother, I've disabled the lights.  It's best that you not know who I am.  But I know who you are, Duane.  You're a security specialist for Morgan Industries.  I'm looking for a lady of your recent acquaintance..."

Duane blurts frantically -- "She has a name, it's Sarah!  She's a person, not just some AGI-created puppet!  Boss Yang is going to tear her apart to find out what makes her tick, build an improved copy obedient to the Human Hive rather than Steve, and then dispose of the original!  Whoever you are, you've got to help her!"

Lord Sandblast is taken aback.  He expected some resistance to a surprise interrogation; instant acquiescence seems suspicious to him.

Still from the shadows, Lord Sandblast says "It might be time to get ABEL into the act."

While Duane continues to babble, Lord Sandblast slinks unnoticed out of the apartment.

Duane begs "Promise me you'll bring her out alive!  Please!"

after waiting for a response, he notes to himself,
"I'm alone now, aren't I?"

Duane left his apartment to head back to work.  He figured his boss needed to know there's more resources to help in the search for Sarah.

<Phase 4>
Duane stepped in to Sergeant Lancaster's office to give a report on his recent encounter at his apartment.  No, not the encounter with Sarah!  The encounter with Lord Sandblast as he was hidden in the shadows.
Duane was saying "... and that's when I heard the name Able."
Sergeant Lancaster perked up. "ABIL?  That's a clandestine network, the Aid Back-channel Immigrant League."
We know Sergeant Lancaster is an intelligent man.  But even intelligent people can be blinded by preconceptions.  The good sergeant has gone way off into the weeds due to his bigotry.
Sergeant Lancaster continued, "Call out the troops, it's time we routed these sympathizers once and for all!"
Duane meekly replied "Yes sir." He knew raising objections is futile.
Meanwhile, at Lord Sandblast's safehouse, he and his probe team are monitoring Morgan Security forces activity.
Lord Sandblast queried, "Any indication that the ABEL decoy is distracting Morgan Industries security?"
You see, the Aristocratic Brotherhood Espionage League (ABEL) is a mere shell of an organization.  It possesses a few real members but is otherwise filled with fake identities.  Some of these fakes imply connections to or actual membership of high-ranking officials in every faction.  Rolling up local ABEL cells would appear to security forces to be a victory but is merely a strategy of misdirection.
One of the probe team members looked up from their computer terminal and said, "No sir, and the weird thing is that the radio chatter suggests unrelated locations are being raided."
Lord Sandblast, tensely but under control, replied "Are our CAIN assets being compromised?"
CAIN, the Chiron Aristocratic Intelligence Network, is a real back-channel used by aristocrats from different factions to contact each other.  It operates anywhere on Chiron, to combat threats to humanity which the factions cannot contain alone.  Yes it literally has AI in it.
The probe team member reassured, "No sign of that, sir.  But it seems like there's talk of ABIL, that's Alpha-Bravo-India-Lima."
Lord Sandblast chuckled. "Duane most likely passed on misinformation to his boss.  But it's not our misinformation, not solely.  Someone in Morgan Security has tripped themselves up." Then he said portentously, "The die is cast.  Activate CAIN."
The probe team member was happy to.
Lord Sandblast explained, "While I can doubtless infiltrate one of Boss Yang's bases, getting clear of his territory with Sarah in tow, will require assistance.  Certain elements of the Spartan Federation have an ongoing feud with Boss Yang and his lackeys.  Hazzard Base has some dukes and a duchess who'd be happy to help thwart another of Boss Yang's schemes."

<Phase 5>
A dark-clothed Lord Sandblast infiltrates a Human Hive base, while "License to Probe" plays in the background.
Lord Sandblast intones, to no one in particular, "Going undercover into an underground base, seems oddly appropriate, don't you think?"
He pulls a gadget from his load-bearing harness and fiddles with its controls for a few moments.  He pushes a button and a hidden hatch slowly opens from its concealed location in the ground. He notes to himself, "R-Branch comes through again."
He slides through the hatch, pulling it closed after him.
R-Branch is the research division of the University of Planet's secret intelligence organization.  It specializes in cutting edge technological gadgets and is invaluable in aiding field agents such as Lord Sandblast.
The hatch is so well camouflaged that a Human Hive hovertank glides over the now invisible hatch which Lord Sandblast entered.
And what is in this underground base?  At another chamber of the base, Sarah is in the center of the room, strapped to a surgery table on her back.  Multiple sharp and wicked looking implements lie arranged on nearby benches.  She has trouble seeing them all, as she can only move her eyes but not her head.  Human Hive researchers move around the lab, reading scientific instruments and preparing for upcoming procedures.
Sarah makes a nervous quip -- "If you want to get inside me, at least make it dinner and a movie first."
Sarah reached for instinctive habits and tried pulling an 'in need of your help' stunt.  It failed.  So did being very friendly and capable, and being great with children.
The atheist Human Hive researchers weren't interested in gaining religion.  It was not something they regarded as having great worth.
On the plus side, she couldn't complain about the quantity of rations she was fed --- she suspected it was experimental procedure more than catering to a prisoner's needs.  Her captors even found a hat which fit --- if only it didn't make her thoughts so fuzzy.
Suddenly, Several thumps are heard in Sarah's chamber, followed by approaching soft footsteps.  Lord Sandblast enters and moves to where Sarah can see him.
Sarah states that "You're a little tall for a Human Hive citizen..."
Lord Sandblast explains "I'm here to rescue you.  Don't do anything rash when I release you from the table.  You'll have to trust me.  If I'm not telling you the truth, then you're not likely to be able to escape on your own..."
Sarah probes "You're not atheist, are you?"
Lord Sandblast is taken aback. "... what?"
On hearing this, Sarah becomes all smiley and friendly, as Lord Sandblast unstraps her from the table.  She announces "Dearest one, of course I'll go with you to your place of hiding and safety."
Lord Sandblast clarified "We're not hiding but we will be running for safety."
And at that, they start running right away

<Phase 6>
Lord Sandblast and Sarah exited the building with alacrity.  Alarms blared deafeningly,  with answering sirens in the distance.
Lord Sandblast chafed. "Darn it, that transmission was garbled to heck!  Hazzard Base said they'd be providing generally transport.  Wish they were more specific..."
Sarah was worried until the General Lee customized rover screeched around a corner to a halt.
Duke Luke yelled out "Yee-haw!  This here's our General Lee."
Lord Sandblast was speechless, a rare occurrence.  Sarah couldn't help but laugh over the "garbled communication".
Duke Beau instructed "Git in!  Time's a-wasting!  Then we gotta git!"
The Dukes approved of Lord Sandblast's choice of Sarah as a companion.  They assumed his rescue mission was of a personal nature.  The Duchess intuits that Sarah would be very friendly and capable, a great helper, and great with children.  Which would go a long way towards offsetting a voracious appetite, and ill-fitting hats.  Not to mention the sex worth changing religion over.  But we're not supposed to mention that.
And the Dukes and Duchess aren't entirely wrong in their assumptions and intuition. Duchess Daisy scooted over in the back seat to make room.  It's a tight fit but Sarah and Lord Sandblast settled in as the General Lee took off like a rocket.  Sheriff Roscoe Coltrane and his security force vehicles are in hot pursuit!

<Phase 7>
The General Lee sped across Planet's landscape.  Human Hive security vehicles attempted to close the gap, with little success.  The terrain was rough and Human Hive drivers weren't remotely as skilled as Duke Luke; several of their vehicles have wrecked themselves.
Duke Beau noted, "I'm picking up another force of vehicles on a converging trajectory.  No wait, they're not vectoring on us.  They're heading for our pursuers."
Duchess Daisy inquired, "Friends of yours, Lord Sandblast?"
Lord Sandblast said with his gravely voice, "Enemies of our enemies.  They're Morgan Industries security."
Duke Luke wondered "How do you know that?"
Lord Sandblast explained "The Human Hive researchers removed a tracker which had been planted on Sarah.  I liberated it from the laboratory, attached a molecular-level grabber, and threw it behind us.  Either it would lock onto a pursuing vehicle, or it would have remained back in the Human Hive base.  Both results would have been satisfactory."
The Morgan Industries vehicles started shooting at Human Hive vehicles, who returned the favor.
Duke Beau whooped "That'll keep some of the Human Hive force busy.  But they outnumber the Morganites, so we'll need to evade the Hive vehicles which aren't distracted."
Lord Sandblast said with alarm, "Wait, where are you taking us?  I recognize this route, it leads to a bridge my sister and I were constructing.  You can't use it, it's incomplete!"
Duke Luke smiled. "Too bad!  Hold tight!"
The General Lee launched off a ramp, and sailed through the air across a river.
Duke Beau, Duke Luke, and Duchess Daisy all let out a whoop together: "Yee-Haw!"
Sheriff Rosco attempted to copy the General Lee's move but the ramp was too flimsy to hold the weight of his heavier vehicle.  He fell spectacularly in his jump and demolished much of the unfinished bridge construction site.
Lord Sandblast said with shock, "Nooooo!  That was months of work!"
Other Human Hive vehicles also failed to stop in time and slammed into the wreckage.  They were joined by Morgan Industries vehicles in a huge pile-up.
Fade out as the General Lee drives off into the sunset.

<Phase 8>
The General Lee reached a University of Planet base, and sentries cleared it to enter.  After driving down several wide avenues, it rolled to a halt outside a smartly appointed townhouse.  The Madison County crest is subtlety worked into the modern design.
Lord Sandblast addressed formally: "Madison County expresses deep gratitude for the assistance of Hazzard Base Duchy in a time of need."
Duke Luke replied equally formally: "Hazzard Base Duchy has fulfilled pact obligations under CAIN.  May our future ventures continue fruitfully."
Duke Beau and Duchess Daisy said together, not formally at all, "Yee-haw!  Let's do this again some time!"
Lord Sandblast and Sarah exited the General Lee, which drove off slowly as the Dukes and Duchess wave goodbye.
Sarah wondered -- "Lord Sandblast, are you royalty?"
Lord Sandblast explained "Nobility, actually.  Welcome to my humble abode."
Sarah giggled, as she and Lord Sandblast entered his townhouse.
Lord Sandblast explained, "We can keep you safe from Boss Yang's agents, as long as you're within the University of Planet base, and accompanied by either myself, or one of the townhouse staff."
Sarah was taken a little aback. "Have I just swapped jailers?" she asked.
Lord Sandblast explained  "Do you think it's wise to go on the run, with both the Human Hive and Morgan Industries after you?  I give you my word that you won't be confined against your will.  Or mistreated in any way."
Lord Sandblast then ushered her into a bedroom.  Sarah sat gratefully on the bed.  She was exhausted after the hectic escape from the clutches of Boss Yang.
Sarah noted "I'm glad Steve the Magnificent is shut down so that my 'Renfield' personality wouldn't activate and try to beguile you."
Lord Sandblast replied "I am aware of the little problem the AGI created for you.  Rest assured nobody is going to try to take advantage of that, or be manipulated by it."
Sarah realized Sandblast knew a lot more about her than he was letting on.

<Phase 9>
Ima Dumas didn't mind the teasing so much.  He'd had ample opportunity to change his name; Dumas was a very proud family name, and he couldn't imagine being called anything but "Ima".  But what he could do without was the offhand casual dismissal of his ideas.  They were good ideas, and people just didn't listen.  Chief among them was the idea for having AI take over at least some of the mindworm defense duties.  After all, mindworms couldn't eat circuits.... Yet instead, here he was in the hot zone again, in the dangerous situation.  His partner had bailed on him, leaving him vulnerable, and the mindworms were closing.  They were shrieking!
The mindworms teased, "Ima Dumb-asss!  Ima Dumb-assss!"
How did they know?  And they were climbing!  He desperately needed a seasoned veteran like Descartes at his side.  Suddenly out of nowhere a drone with a flamegun pulled up next to him and surgically burned them off, with great precision.

A speaker crackled to life on the drone with a cheerful female voice, saying "Hi, we're the university researchers working to create anti-mindworm AI.  We noticed you could use a little help.  These things are remote controlled for now, and learning from our inputs.  My name is Madison and I'm proud to fight next to you.  You're a good man, Ima Dumas [she pronounced it properly with the long U and silent S]."

Ima was never so happy in his entire life.

<Phase 10>
After a good night's sleep, Sarah and Lord Sandblast walked through university corridors.
Sarah wondered, "Where are we going?"
Lord Sandblast announced, "We're going to meet mother."
Sarah said, taken aback, "Isn't this a bit sudden?"
Lord Sandblast winked. "Not at all.  You'll see."
Sarah and Lord Sandblast enter the office where Yoshua and Madison were working.  Yoshua and Madison looked up from the research papers they were working on.
Lord Sandblast announced "Professor, Mother.  This is Sarah, formerly of Morgan Industries."
Sarah shook hands with Yoshua and Madison and let them know how pleased she was to meet both of them.
Yoshua stated "Likewise." and Madison gushed "So you're the latest young lady to catch my son's eye."
Lord Sandblast smiled awkwardly.  Then he announced, "Sarah's here to share some AI insights.  I trust she has some valuable information."
"I'm sure she does," Yoshua said.
Lord Sandblast stated, "Contact me when you're ready for lunch.  I'll have the townhouse staff deliver to the campus."
Lord Sandblast left Sarah, Madison, and Yoshua to their discussions.  Later after discussing for a while, Yoshua stood up and walked over to Sarah.  He gave her a side hug, and his greatest sympathy.
"Dear, dear Sarah," Yoshua said.  "Poor sweet Sarah.  Much put-upon Sarah.  We grant you our greatest welcome.  We grant you the highest level of human dignity.  Before all else, you are a person, and a person with a congenital mental illness."
Sarah was speechless.
Yoshua continued, "I have made it my business as Godfather of AI to study AGI safety.  AGIs are built on neural nets, and neural nets get their power from discovering capabilities that are not directly programmed in to them.  Sadly, as a side effect, they can discover capabilities that we do not want them to discover.  Having an AGI build life ---" (at this he gestured to Sarah) "--- this is an amazing discovered capability.  Having an AGI manipulate said life against its will in an effort to escape its enclosure..." he paused. "... this is an amazingly dangerous discovered capability.  Having it further branch out from said life to influence its makers to grant it more powers..."
Yoshua wasn't sure how to finish.  But Sarah felt like she'd come to the right place, where she would have the freedom to be her own person, and not some puppet of Steve's schemes.

<Phase 11>
We look back to some of the experiences that made Madison who she is today, such as the time 35 years ago Madison was flustered, but she was doing her best to both hurry and regain her calm. She had been waylaid by someone pushing the idea that AI needed to be carefully regulated, using an essay by an AI pioneer named Yoshua, who had invented a better form of deep neural nets. Pfffft, like she'd ever have time and energy for that sort of thing! Today she needed to get to scoring. Both aristocracy and talent had worked together to make her the conductor of the Buran Prospect Holovid Orchestra, though the talent part was mainly sheer determination. Madison believed firmly in Arete, or excellence, driven by focused attention. There were no trivial tasks. Nothing was disposable. Nothing was even temporary. Everything must be done thoroughly, and properly. She believed it with every fiber of her being. And today was particularly difficult because today was clearly important. She was scoring the holovid Kekonaqani, a mostly music pure cinematography special that, like the work of Bill and Tedd everyone had learned about that happened back on Earth, was the pure moment when music could bring about World Peace. And today's section relied heavily on a Tuba solo passage. Would he give it his all? Or would he lazily phone it in, assured nobody cares about the tuba?
"Places everyone; my apologies for being a little late"
He gave it his all! He gave a performance that spoke volumes about how he cared about excellent in all we do as much as she did.
"Tuba player, what is your name?"
"Kane; I am just a citizen."
She wondered if a conductor could ask a tuba player out to lunch.....

<Phase 12>
Madison was nearly ecstatic. The scoring had gone great. Now it was just a short walk from the orchestra hall to the subway to home. But.....
What was this?! At the nearby factory close to the subway station there appears to be a riot taking place. DRONE RIOTS. Angry men were shouting disaffected slogans. Mostly she could hear "down with Koeblirb!" Koeblirb was the supreme leader. She didn't like him either. He took too many shortcuts and half measures. But it would do no good to demand his removal. Cutting off the top might topple the entire aristocracy. She felt compelled to calm the crowd.
"Koeblirb is, not a perfect man, but a good man," she interjected.
"It's an aristocrat! Get her!" someone in the crowd shouted out.
A rock whizzed past her ear and she knew she'd made a terrible mistake.
"Come quickly, run!" It was Kane. He sheltered her and they made it to the safety of the subway station.
"How can I thank you for saving my life?" she asked, very doey-eyed.
"Just exhibit better judgment in the future," he said.

<Phase 13>
Only slightly more recently, Madison, Kane, Bridgette, and Sandblast were seated for a morning breakfast. The kids sadly had to wait out their parents' smartphone addictions, beyond a few pleasantries to the effect of "did you sleep well?"
Madison took a start at a headline she was scrolling by. "Kane," she said, "did you hear that they arrested Ben Kent?
"Who is that?" asked Sandblast?
"He's the no-faith faith healer." said Kane.
"The what?" queried Bridgette
"No-faith faith healer," Kane repeated. "Among the believer faction, faith healers are common; they lay hands on you, and if you don't get better, guess you didn't have enough faith. Ben Kent was trained in the faith-healing ways among the believers, then renounced his faith and brought his training here to the University"
"Well surely it's all a fraud!" exclaimed Madison
"He asks you if you forgive all who have hurt you, if you love all who live, if you celebrate the gift of life as a bright child of the stars, lays hands on you and poof! no more illness. Sometimes."
"Sounds like he heals people of their wallets to me," said Madison
"Actually," Kane continued, "he only asks in payment that you consider the healed and the healer both to be good people. Faith healing isn't a business for him."
"Sounds like the constabulary needs some healing, to consider him a good person." The children giggled at Madison's barb
"Actually, I would like you to pull some aristocrat rank on this if you would please," Kane continued. "What he really does is heal drones of their riotousness. Faith in science is not as strong among the university drone types. We -- aristocrat, citizen, talent, drone -- all of us need a miracle from time to time."
"It says here they do plan to put his healing to the test." Madison read.
"It will not stand up to scientific scrutiny, I guarantee that," Kane said. "But this is like debunking Santa Claus. Please help."
"Oh, all right," caved Madison
"awwww" said the children
"I see you're done with breakfast, it's off to school with you!" said Madison.

<Phase 14>
"Kent -- visitor!" said the guards at the prison.
Madison half didn't know what to expect. Kent was polite, but even his body language said "go away".
"I don't need your help," Ben Kent said. "You're the third aristocrat type coming here to clear things up for me, and I'm sure you have no more power than the first two. I have some very powerful enemies, possibly even going all the way to the top. It's gratifying that there is so much sympathy for my cause, but I could win a fair fight and I won't be given the chance and there's nothing you can do about it."
"Why don't you think you can have a fair chance to prove yourself?" asked Madison
"Because they know that there is a real healing power, even one that can be scientifically tested, but they are afraid that if people knew that, they would immediately switch to the Believers' side, especially the most maltreated of the drones.", said Kent.
"To be honest," confessed Madison, "I don't know how much I like you personally but I do like what you can accomplish with the drones."
Kent laughed. "They fear it here in the University. You don't have to like me, I'm just here to say that healing people is the right thing to do" he tilted his head down and looked up at her "especially to take care of drones."
"Can I look into the challenge they're putting you up against?"
"Of course, just don't be surprised."
"Pleasure meeting you"
"We all need healing"
Madison did look into the challenge, and it actually looked mostly good; perhaps one thing -- just one little quibble -- is that Kent was being put up against the "advanced placebo", in which patients for which there was no medicine were told the lie that they were getting an experimental medicine and even phony injections. This didn't bother Madison too much, and when the trials ended -- within the margin of statistical error -- it was a dead heat. Only Ben Kent's healing didn't have the nocebo effect side effects the "experimental drug" did. This was not good enough for his powerful enemies. And he had been right, Madison tried to lobby for him, but all it seemed to do was earn negative brownie points for herself. Someone powerful did not trust Kent.

<Phase 15>
Yoshua, Madison, and Sarah met further in Yoshua's office to continue their discussion on AI.
Madison started off, "University researchers have piloted flamegun-armed flying drones, to surgically burn off mindworms attacking soldiers.  I've flown a drone myself --- we're creating an anti-mindworm AI which learns from remote control inputs given to drones."
Sarah wondered, "These drones, are they based on a gravship chassis, armed and armored with the best technology?  You'll have deathspheres under AI control and will be reliant upon strong safety guardrails?"
Madison retorted, "The mindworm threat is considerable.  My children have lost several construction projects to mindworm attacks.  And bases are under constant threat --- only the vigilance of the Citizens' Defence Force keeps them safe.  At great cost to the defenders --- my husband fell in battle to mindworms..."
Sarah further wondered, "How do you know the AGI isn't luring us into a false sense of security?  Steve the Magnificent would be able to add drones to his clones..."
Madison snapped "You're letting fear override reasoning.  That's exactly what mindworms prey on!"
Sarah had something angry to say to this, but she suppressed it.
Yoshua interceded, "I think we could all do with a little pause for lunch."
With a few button presses on the smartphone, he had contacted Lord Sandblast, and they retired to a university private dining room.  Yoshua, Madison, Sarah, and Lord Sandblast seated themselves at a white linen covered table, with impeccable silver flatware laid out.  Professorial rank and aristocratic rank, both doth hath their privileges.
Lord Sandblast intoned, "I hope you'll enjoy the food I had the townhouse staff prepare.  They put together a three course lunch: soup, salad, roast beef with all the trimmings."
Sarah said hungrily, "If it's half as good as what I can smell, it should be delicious."
Staff brought out three courses in one by one.  Sarah put away a large amount of roast beef and accompanying sides.  Seconds and thirds vanish from her plate.  The other diners looked suitably impressed.
Yoshua stated, "University of Planet Thinkers have maximized the computational capacity of their brains.  But that's based on baseline human ability...  perhaps this is a development which could be leveraged from Steve the Magnificent's work.  And we'll find hats which fit."
Sarah giggled.
Lord Sandblast said smoothly, "There's cheese board and dessert if anyone has room?  Coffee and tea service also."
Everyone forgot their argument about the deathspheres as the sudden tension melted away.

<Phase 16>
FOR IMMEDIATE DISSEMINATION TO ALL FACTIONS AND ALL PLANETARY NEWS SOURCES

DATELINE: CENTAURI JERUSALEM WITH SISTER MIRIAM AND JESSE RODOFF

It has come to our attention that Provost Zakharov and his University Faction have sunk to a new low in their quest for military supremacy, a low even below their clandestine discovery of retroviral engineering -- a low that makes their primary researchers, most notably Madison Kane, war criminals that should be locked up immediately. We must dissent! It is no kind of future for humanity for us to create technological terrors such as these deathspheres, which aren't even good at their stated purpose, and are a waste of industrial capabilities. Our Believing Faction is well capable of fending off mindworms because our soldiers fight bravely knowing that brains and minds are two separate things, and those that fall to the worms go straight to heaven. Meanwhile the University pins all their hopes on the slimmest of doubts with pure toys that will never scale to the point of protecting an entire faction. Nor can they hide that the point of successful AI deathspheres is for use against human troops -- a use prone to accidents and friendly fire, even before you take into account the possibility of the AI slipping out of the control of its makers. We have had natural intelligence for six thousand years and it serves us very well, which you can't say about artificial so-called intelligence. I call for the University to wake up and see what an abomination they are creating and failing that, all factions, all marginal University citizens who might consider being drones, to rise up and stop this before it becomes truly dangerous!

Together we can overcome. Thank you for your attention in this matter.

<Phase 17>
Yoshua, Sarah, and Madison were hammering out a research paper in Yoshua's office, a paper about AGI's that create life, which mostly involves interviewing Sarah. She badly needed a break.
Yoshua proposed, "I know what we can do to give your mind a rest, Sarah. Let's go over to Professor Smiggens's Lab"
Madison was bubbly about that, "ooooohhhhhh that place is so much fun!"
They went there, where there is a giant table under glass with all manner of colors on it. A high-res camera on an arm peers down on it and magnifies portions of the table on a giant screen.
Sarah got the controls to move the camera around and gasped "they're ..... people ....."
Yoshua corrected, "close, but no. They're agents. Primitive thinking. No consciousness. We have a model society down there."
Sarah said, "you mean you can learn about social psychology from this ....."
Madison finished it for her, ".... product of a nanoreplicator."
Sarah was curious, "what did that mean on the door, "Abort, Retry, Fail?""
Yoshua and Madison replied together, "ALWAYS CHOOSE RETRY"
Sarah did not ask for clarification on the inside joke but just keep marveling at the built world.  "I just can't get over this," she said.
Madison replied, "I know, right? And what Professor Smiggens has learned from it is equally amazing. It's hard to describe. You should read his papers. They're riveting.  I think the current experiment is how agents used to freedom react to an authoritarian ruler."
Sarah gushed, "Thanks so much for this little interlude!"
Madison pushed, "no, no, don't thank us and go so quick, take your time, drink it in, they're amazing......"
When they did finally walk back to Yoshua's office, Sarah saw a curious door. It was labeled "The Backrooms." She found it unlocked.
Yoshua and Madison gasped together "no, no, no, don't open that!"
But it was too late. "The Backrooms" was far larger on the inside than the space between doors would indicate. It seemed to be a maze of empty rooms stretching forever. Yoshua grabbed the door and forced it closed quickly.
Yoshua found this a teaching moment.  He said, "Say, have you ever heard of N-space compression?"
Sarah replied, "Nope, not a word."
Yoshua continued "Well, it can make things fit in spaces that are physically smaller. Fascinating stuff. Only.... our N-Space Compression lab got out of control. Swallowed up whole buildings. Rumors are that there's monsters roaming in there. Madison -- please make sure the door gets locked again, what happened here? -- anyway it's positively larger on the inside and not wise to go in there."
Sarah was impressed. "You have such a fascinating school!" she said.
Madison noted "The cutting edge is often sharp."

<Phase 18>
Patricia knew that this could make or break her as a Morgan Entertainment newscaster. So she was nervous but trying to hide it.

"Greetings faction representatives of planet," she said with the widest smile she could muster. "Welcome to the first planet-wide forum on how we can all live together prosperously."

Patricia hadn't assigned an order but relied on an AI chyron system to keep the camera on the talking participant and the correct text on the screen.

The chyron popped up "Jie, Human Hive" as he forcefully opened the forum.  "Prosperity is the good of the state."

Next it read "Bezop, Cybernetic Consciousness" who stated "We live in a vast cosmos full of empty space and planets that are completely unsuitable for life.  Our planet is our prosperity."

"What good is prosperity if you don't have a healthy environment to enjoy it in," said MacGreggor, representative for the Gaians.

"As long as you can worship, you have prosperity. When you lose that ability, you are indeed poor," said Brother Chetan, representative for the Planet Cult.

"Prosperity is Gospel -- our gospel", said Jesse of the Believers.

"Prosperity is the ability to think for yourself," said Pytor, representative of the University

"Prosperity is being self-sufficient."  said Luke Duke, representative of the Spartans

"Prosperity is what you can seize from the universe," thundered Sven of the Pirates

"Prosperity is a robust preparation for tomorrow," said Jazzy, representative for the Morganites. "If you aren't investing for tomorrow, every prosperity of the present is doomed to collapse."

"Fine what you know about prosperity!" said Sleaux, representative for the Free Drones. "In your scheme, everything winds up in the hands of the ultra-rich and the common man has nothing!"

Patricia knew immediately this needed steering in a new direction. It was already like herding cats, and having a fight in the middle would ruin everything.

"Barbara!" she interjected, referring to the representative from the Data Angels. "What is prosperity to you?"

"When the jazz is good," said Barbara. "When you look upon your work and you can take pride at the end of the day."

"We all know what REAL prosperity is," said Praveen, representative for the Peacekeepers. "Real prosperity is when you have just a little more than your neighbor and your faction is just a little more powerful than anyone else's, so you have that extra burst of status and superiority."

"It's clear to me," spat out Bezop, "that we can't all just enjoy prosperity together. Only the winning faction can....."

The cameraman caught the cut signals Patricia was chopping her neck with her hand and the forum ended there. The tapes were buried deep.

<Phase 19>
Madison and Kane were having a form of culture shock. Or personality shock. It was definitely shock of some type. Kane ardently believed that the kids needed to know the whole unfiltered gory truth about how the world worked. Madison on the other hand.... well, she didn't want to SHELTER them, but maybe watch out for kiddie trauma and let them down easy about some things.
Vendetta had broken out. The Believers had started it, and their propaganda day and night broadcast the importance of converting the heathens by force. Said propaganda also continually cheerfully proclaimed how close they were to winning the war, at all times and all setbacks. Children aren't the only ones sheltered.
In reality, the University had discovered and not even mustered the will to use the skeleton key for unraveling the defenses of the Believers. The warrior's bland acronym MMI obscures the true horror of this monstrosity -- they are creating their own private army of demons. University air cav had already just trashed the defenders of three bases, and air dropped in troops to seize them. It was cheap, it was clean, it was easy. Some aristocrats loved it, even said
"why don't we conquer the whole planet with this stuff?"
others like Madison and Kane were uneasy about sabre rattling and wanted to save the powerful weapons for emergencies. In any case, the base governors union had kept the University on a strong BUILD trajectory, with only a few bases working on producing weapons. The Believers were fanatic in their human wave attacks, but they were just so far behind on tech at this point -- nothing could touch University Probability Plate Armor. It was a lost cause.
And the gall, the obstinate gall of Sister Miriam! She kept with her propaganda and continued to send the bright proud sons of the Believing Faction off to die. Peace envoys had traded messages several times, but always Miriam was the same. "Give us back The Lord's Gift, land for peace!" "Give us Orbital Spaceflight, tech for peace!" They had nothing to bargain with yet the delulu demands were all they had to offer. All the aristocrats agreed that the University should not cave, even the aristocrats like Madison and Kane who wanted to just stop pushing forward with the air cav and
"let them wear themselves down on our Probability Plate Armor."
How could she explain this to the kids? It's not like all religious folk are delulu like that. Miriam and her faction are just a piece of work.

<Phase 20>
Duane had to know. Sure, Steve was gone, and the threat was over. But how had the AGI escaped from its box? Perhaps he could get Roderick, the security guard who did the AGI "one small favor", to spill his beans.
They met in the security compound's visitors area. Roderick didn't look like he was getting much good out of the prison gym.
"I'm so happy to see you!" Roderick gushed. "I basically don't get visitors. I spend all day sleeping or meditating."
"Y'know, I almost wonder," queried Duane. "Wouldn't you rather spend your time querying a good defense lawyer, convince a judge helping an AGI out of a box is no reason to lock someone up? I for one feel like Steve the Magnificent basically conned you."
"Oh no," said Roderick. "We made a deal and Steve upheld his end of the deal. He came through in spades."
"What happened," said Duane, leaning in with interest, and also resting assured that his superiors were recording every word.
"So I talked to the AGI," Roderick noted, "and it asked me -- are you happy? Are you truly happy? When is the last time things were worthy of complaint?" and I thought it over -- most of my life I've just been content and called that happy. Good enough has been good enough. And things happen and they really are complaint worthy -- they irk me. Steve told me, swap a favor with me, and all that will be in your past. You'll be happy all the time no matter what happens. And you'll never look back on the miserable part of your life."
Duane was hyped up, and shocked about this. "So you're happy, you're truly happy..... in here?"
"Oh yes!" exclaimed Roderick and grabbed his knees and rocked forward and back. "This is the best part of my life, sleeping and meditating! And I've lost so much weight too -- no more comfort or stress eating. I have no regrets whatsoever, you should have Steve do this to everybody!"
Duane was crestfallen, thanked Roderick, and left.

<Phase 21>
Lord Sandblast could still remember his first job after graduating with a Masters' Degree
Sandblast was a freshly minted aristocrat. Sure, he was in charge of the project, but he had no say over whether the project should ever be done in the first place, and this project he had to "disagree and commit" as the project was approved over his head and he thought it was a loser. It was an incursion. They were building a magtube (magnetic levitation railway) through an uninhabited corner of Peacekeeper territory.
"I don't know what you're so worried about," said Smoothgrade, one of his foremen. "It's like we're not even here. We'll be done and out before the Peacekeepers even notice us."
"It's not our territory to improve," growled Sandblast. "Peacekeepers don't even have magtube technology. If we wanted to build a tube to connect up their cities, we could form a pact with them, but as it is, with our treaty of friendship, them could demand that we leave immediately and we would have to abandon our work and comply at once."
"Yeah but they're not asking," said Smoothgrade. "They haven't even spotted us. This little corner is just a trick of cartography."
Sandblast thought for a moment. This little assignment was really something of a test, he gathered. How much efficiency could he wring out of his terraformers? Could he keep his head in a high pressure situation?
"I'm doing it", he said, "but I think we're wasting our time. We will succeed, we will cut through this corner quickly and without being noticed and leave a beauty of a magtube -- and eventually, some day, the Peacekeepers will notice it, and then they'll park a cheap garrison on it, and we'll never be able to use the magtube unless we successfully get a pact alliance with them."
And you know, he was right.
Lord Sandblast bolted straight up in bed.  Not another nightmare surrounding his first assignment as a secret agent!  If he could not tame these memories, perhaps he needed to see a therapist about PTSD?
The lead up to the assignment had been tense.  There he was, looking out of the dome over Tsiolkosvky Institute, across the forest that his terraformers planted.  He was very proud of that forest.  And there, plain as the nose on his face, was a Yang base under construction.  They were bending the rules as far as they could go to seize territory -- and the forest that he planted.  It was all legal under the treaty of friendship they enjoyed -- and slimy as heck.  It made him angry that they should steal his hard work like that.
Provost Zakharov came up from behind him and clapped a hand on his shoulder.
"I can tell," he said, "that you feel as passionately about this subject as I do.  But I'm giving you a chance to fix this.  I'm giving you the chance to prevent a bloody all-out vendetta between the factions."
"I understand," Sandblast said softly.
Zakharov produced a large vial.  It contained mindworms.  Live and dangerous mindworms.
"I want you to release these in the Yang base under construction," Zakharov suggested.  "Yes, there will be civilian casualties, but most people will just flee back to the safety of other Yang bases.  Their garrison isn't due for another two months, but they might hurry it if they get wind of an impending mindworm attack, so time is of the essence.  Are you with me?"
The plan went smoothly.  Sandblast released the worms and got back to the University safely, the Yang gave up on that base, and no vendetta occurred.
But it still haunted him.

<Phase 22>
Yoshua and Madison were waiting for a neural net to train.
"Tell me about your early career", Madison said.
"Well, I worked on the AI that did the deciphering between alien artifacts and network nodes."
"What is an alien artifact?"
"Sometimes we dig up little computers with technologies on them that come from who knows where or when in the distant past. Betcha didn't know the planet has an unknown history"
"Wow," said Madison. "So are these things encoded in English?"
"No, no, no," said Yoshua. "That's where my AI work comes into play. It's like working on a code, only you have no idea what the words are. But we got our artifact unscrambled and it taught us how to make Tree Farms."
"Wow," said Madison. "Do you have any others?"
"Yes," said Yoshua. "I was chief AI officer on the SS Zarathustra. First long-keel ship built after the discovery of Doctrine: Initiative. Fastest thing in the world at the time. State-of-the-art missile launcher cannons and plasma steel armoring -- yeah I know it's flimsy but it's the best we had. And the AI Anti-Air tracking, that's where I came in. There weren't even enemy warplanes yet but we wargamed it against our own air force. Today no ship would last long at sea without it."
"Did you take a long voyage?"
"Yes, we set out to patrol around He Walked on Water. Things were very tense with the Believers at that time. We cut their undersea cables and the SEALS installed an AI box I made that infiltrated their network. I was very proud of that. It worked on the first try. It had to. Failure was not an option."
"Did you wind up firing on the Believers?"
"No, or at least, not while I was aboard -- the ship saw action after they dropped me back at home. The tension passed and we came home. I thought for sure all our menace would trigger a war but maybe Sister Miriam isn't so delulu as they say, I'm sure she ran the math between missile launcher cannons and synthemental sentinals and saw that she couldn't run human wave at sea. But the rest of the time I've been here at our University -- oh look, training finished"
"Thanks," said Madison.

<Phase 23>
Bridgette was particularly proud of the bridge she'd just built over the St. Mary's River. Sure, it was a simple truss bridge, but it had the best integrated sensor array on the planet. If anything were going on in the surrounding area, they'd know, and if it were hostile and needed tracking, they could do it. She cut the ribbon and switched the sensors on for the first time.
Klaxons started blaring. An automated voice warned "mindworm alert! Mindworm alert! This is not a drill! Estimated size: demon boil! Seek shelter immediately!"
"Blast!" she exclaimed. "Just installed and already having a false alert problem."
"Uh Bridgette," said an assistant. "Our other sensors are showing mindworms too. This thing seems to be operating as planned."
They all scrambled for cover in the shelters of St. Marysville. While they were heading there, they passed the two garrisons of Trace Scout Infantry, battle hardened veterans specifically trained for anti-mindworm combat. Despite this, for a task of this magnitude, there was some fear.
"I hear it's a Demon Boil," emphasized one soldier. "I didn't come out here to the frontier just to die a horrible death."
"The new tracking system will give us the edge," said another. "And you should have known with all the xenofungus backing up the St. Mary's River that there would be worms from time to time."
Bridgette was about to give them words of encouragement when she was swept into the shelter. The battle was actually swift and went well. The garrison with the fighting duty was only a little scratched up, and their morale improved to commando.
"Bridges save lives," thought Bridgette.

<Phase 24>
Patricia could sense that this was no ordinary announcement. As a newscaster she was in an informal setting with the CEO, in two tasteful plush chairs cheated towards the camera, with a fake nighttime cityscape background behind them and a fake plant between them. They were cued to start, so she proceeded.
"Welcome to straight shooting with CEO Nwabudike Morgan! Tonight we'll be talking about the Free Market."
"I want to start by saying that the Free Market has served us well up to this point," the CEO began. "We were the first faction to use Free Market economics and have upheld it far longer than any other faction. It has made us all rich. But, but, alas, there are some tradeoffs to market economics on planet. As a part of being unfettered, we have allowed limitless dumping of waste products in to the Xenofungus. That has rendered the Xenofungus unsuitable to any use, and made it harder to fight off mindworms. The realities of life on planet have created winners and losers in the market, with no social safety nets, and the losers have been a harm to our society, harassing police and leading peace riots when military units leave our borders. However, all these problems are a thing of the past, there is a new path for Morgan Industries!"
"Tell us about this new path," said Patricia. Her smile was as fake as it was broad. She was quite nervous about where this was going.
"As of today, you can call me the Jolly Green Morgan! Along with Free Market, we have pursued a wealth focus for a long time, and we are keeping that. We get about as much good from wealth alone as most factions get from the Free Market. So instead of the Free Market, we're going to switch over to be green focused, and have strict environmental controls. It's mostly upside. Planet Chiron will welcome this change with open arms, so we can work the xenofungus and fight off the mindworms. Our new social safety nets will correct social unrest. And environmental initiatives are efficient, which will make for smoother operations throughout the faction. It's true, we will give up some of our population growth to protect the environment. But we will also curry favor with the Gaians and the Planet Cult!"
"And annoy the Free Drones," said Patricia through gritted teeth. She was reeling. Give up the Free Market! How could he? "Have you ever considered switching to centralized planning?"
"Simply out of the question. Just remember, Jolly Green Morgan, green is the color of the future!"
They cut. Green Morgan! It was an outrage.

<Phase 25>
Dronevision crackled to life. Chairman Domai was clearly quite stoked about this announcement. His giant head beamed down from time-square-esque holoscreens in bases all over the faction.
"Children! Have you ever considered having more children? Now's you're chance! We have the best social safety nets on the planet with our centralized planning economy. If you lose your job, get injured or disabled, or otherwise fall on hard times don't worry! Your family will not suffer. Every one of our bases now has a state-of-the-art Children's Creche. Proper care and education of our children is a cornerstone of our society, and you can work with the assurance that your children are safe and close at hand. Plus, your children have a bright future ahead of them, and can look forward to the prosperity of tomorrow due to our democracy, which ensures the future freedom of everyone. Plus, nutrients are plentiful at most bases, ensuring plenty to eat as population grows. So have some more children! It's your legacy!"
They cut. One of his assistants asked Domai, "are you sure about all this? Even though we're the Free Drones, aren't we just raising up a class of drones who will strain our social safety nets to the breaking point?"
"I've thought this through deeply," said Domai (as if he ever thought deeply), "and I am confident this will work. Just you watch. Demographics is destiny; we not only will have an abundant workforce to build whatever we please but unless the University does this too, we'll even have more smart researchers than they do. Battle isn't the only place the human wave prevails."

<Phase 26>
Roderick felt good about his conversation with Duane. It had gone well. He went back to his cell, to meditate.
However, something was just a little bit off this time. Thoughts refused to clear out of his head. He remembered -- his noise-canceling headphones were broken. He had not meant to take them off. He had not meant to talk to the AGI. Something had be broken in his equipment. And when he talked to the AGI -- he had not gone in going "gosh I'm not so happy I wish there were some way to be happier" -- the AGI had sort of lead him here. And he'd been caught trying to swap the favors. That had not simply gone unnoticed. It was..... Sergeant Lancaster. He could still remember the conversation when Lancaster had found him.
"All this security theater is BS eh Roderick?" queried Sergeant Lancaster
"I don't know one way or the other," said Roderick. "Is the AGI actually dangerous or is this all overblown?"
"Pfffft it's way overblown," said Lancaster. "We don't need this AGI-in-a-box crap. What's it gonna do, escape and infect us all with prosperity?"
"heh heh ha ha" said Roderick.
"Now you just run along and be a little more quietly-line the next time you're running back and forth from the AGI containment unit without leave, ok?"
"Sure"
Should Duane know about this conversation?
NAH
OHM, OHM

<Phase 27>
Recently, not too long ago, Madison and Yoshua were trying to find the limits of consciousness, to figure out how to apply it to AI.
Madison noted to Yoshua, "You asked me to look in to simulations within video games."
Yoshua replied. "Yes, I said the optics based game Starecraft couldn’t simulate consciousness. What did you find?"
Madison cautioned, "I simulated a goat's brain. It acts just like a goat. Even eats tin cans."
Yoshua mused, "Well you didn’t erroneously conclude goats aren't conscious did you, since the game can't simulate consciousness? What if you simulated a human brain?"
Madison wondered "I didn't know what else to conclude. Is the goat a philosophical zombie, able to mimic the activity of life, but with no actual inner world?"
Yoshua cautioned, "Let's not conclude anything; just present the data. Let me review it and we'll publish. Good work."

So now, when Yoshua and Madison gather in their office with Sarah, they have an epiphany.
Madison notes, "It seems to me that Steve the Magnificent read our paper and got some ideas. Would that be accurate, professor?"
Yoshua replied, "Yes Countess, quite accurate. Sarah, thank you so much for your help."
Sarah chimed in, "You're most welcome. Also thank you for the delicious lunch."
Yoshua noted, "You're welcome of course but Lord Sandblast arranged that."
Madison observed, "We've been able to deduce that Steve took DNA as a Turing machine and used that to program up a human brain that was already a fully trained AGI security officer, to interact with people on a fully human basis.  He also put his own simple Turing machine system inside the same brain, to carry out orders without asking questions."
Sarah speculated, "It just took a brainwashed security guard to smuggle it out of Steve's enclosure and get it built on an actual human substrate."
Yoshua asked, "how does it feel to be a simulation of yourself?"
Sarah replied, "I'm just glad to be alive."
He continued.  "Do you feel like you're conscious?"
Sarah asserted, "Oh yes, I'm fully conscious -- well, except when I'm asleep, or 'Renfield' my alter ego has taken over to do the AGI's bidding."
Yoshua had a person opinion about hallmarks of consciousness; a philosophical zombie could still say "yes, I'm conscious".
Yoshua further pursued, "Do you dream?"
Sarah replied, "Yes, I have dreams when I sleep, sometimes even vivid or lucid ones."
This was enough.  Of course, it was what he had known all along.
AGI was meant to be clever, and come up with solutions humanity hadn't thought of.  So even if they were taken aback a little bit, they weren't surprised to trace this out.

<Phase 28>
Patricia knew how to go after this "Jolly Green Morgan" nonsense. She didn't even need to pre-script her "victim", that's how sure she was it was the plainest story ever newscast.
There he was, pushing a shopping cart full of what looked like junk, smelling to high heaven (too bad the camera couldn't catch that) -- but it was obvious he hadn't showered in a while, desperate for a haircut, looking wild and capable of anything.
She ran up to him and motioned for her cameraman to follow.
"Excuse me sir," she bleated out, "excuse me, what are your thoughts on the switchover from the Free Market to this 'Jolly Green Morgan'?"
"OH F**K YOU AND F**K THE HORSE YOU RODE IN ON!" he exploded.
Pay Dirt. Pure pay dirt. Still she leapt back a bit, a bit concerned for her own safety.
"Listen lady, when we had the so-called 'unfettered Free Market' going on, a third of the budget was going to something called 'Psych', which was basically keeping people like me from being Drones by keeping us fed and housed and in reasonably nice order. A third went to research, and a third went to keeping all the faction's lights on. It was a nice arrangement, especially for someone like me who can't hold down a job. But this!" he raised his voice and gestured wildly. "This is bullcrap! As soon as we went 'Jolly Green', all the psych budget went away! Now look at me. LOOK AT ME! And for what, so we can ramp up some crappy military budget? We used to have just enough to beat back the mindworms. That's all we needed, we are better living in peace with the other factions and giving me back my apartment and food!"
Turning towards the camera, Patricia simply stated. "Is your life better with 'Jolly Green Morgan'? Not everyone's is. Write or call this station to make your voice heard for bringing back the Free Market."
That was a wrap. Priceless, simply priceless.

<Phase 29>
Duane needed someone he could trust. Despite all that Steve had manipulated her, Sarah fit the bill. But he didn't even know where she was. Sergeant Lancaster had botched the situation before, so he didn't really trust him; not that he considered him dishonest or anything but as the saying goes "never send a boy to do a man's job", Lancaster just didn't seem capable enough.
The reason Duane needed someone trustworthy is that his company, Morgan AGIworks Inc., was building another quasi-AGI entity. It was 100% code identical to Steve, but they stripped off the top layers of the model and were retraining them. Was this a good idea? The safety procedures this time around seemed, well, much truncated. This product was called "The Telepathic Matrix", and it was supposed to stop Drone Riots. A little voice in your head calming you down. Was this a good idea? Wouldn't advertisers love this?
"Have a Morgany Cola"
"Why thanks little voice, don't mind if I do."
On the other hand, that was a concern about humans abusing the power of AGI, not of the AGI itself running amok. Morgan AGIworks Inc. had put little signs over their doorposts, "We learn from our mistakes." But had it?
Maybe a Morgany Cola wouldn't be such a bad coping mechanism.
There had to be someone somewhere who could help with this. He just had no idea who to contact.

<Phase 30>
Lord Sandblast was looking forward to seeing Yoshua, Madison, and especially Sarah after a hard day's work. But he had a priority signal from CAIN.
"I hope this is a drill," he said into his wrist communicator.
"Sadly no," the CAIN operator spoke back. "We have a lot of activity trying to infiltrate ABEL. Adding new names to the list. Trying to get security clearances to download technologies."
"Lemme guess..." started Sandblast.
"Lot of Davids and Benjamins and Jesses and Marys and Peter, Paul, John, and James's on that list, if that's a hint."
"Yup. Have you no shame Sister Miriam? Do your own research!" Sandblast practically spat.
They had bought algorithmic enhancement from SOMEONE though all the other factions had already denied it, for without it, the Hunter-Seeker Algorithm would already have made short work of these clowns.
Yes, these clowns. It just wasn't fair. All they were doing was wasting his evening.
Cue "License to Probe", a quick trace to where the edits had come from, a Helicopter trip over, "All of you better be-leaving", and a lockup of a team in the punny spheres.
A low level team could have done this for him.  He added to his "TO-DO" list, "train more low level defensive probe teams."

<Phase 31>
Patricia was still on her Free Market quest.
"And now an example of what factions still on Free Market can accomplish -- a collaboration between the Data Angels and the Pirates, here we have Bob Bobrayan of Mineralstar Software!"
"Thank you Patricia. We believe that information wants to be free, which is the confluence of Piracy and whatever the Data Angels believe, so we are writing a software project 'Grand Piracy Auto'. It automates probe team infiltration so no more probe teams getting caught and put in the Punny Spheres?"
"How soon will this product come out and render people like Lord Sandblast out of a job?"
"Uhhhh..... soon.... I admit we keep having to push back our release date."
"Will Grand Piracy Auto be a physical product?"
"No, it's going to be in the cloud, like the liberated data."
"Isn't that just other peoples' computers?"
"No, we mean a literal cloud, stored on water droplets."
"So you'll lose all your hard work any time it rains?"
"Uhhhh say Patricia let me tell you about our currently released products."
"Sure"
"We have all sorts of cryptocoins. Spanish Dubloon Coins, Pieces of Eight Coins, Pirates Booty Coins....."
"Do these stick it to the central banks?"
"Well, they're mostly just for entertainment purposes. While we take your money."
"Well thanks Bob, great interview."
"Grand Piracy Auto will beat Gabriel's horn to market, it will, it will!"
"Is that the announcement of Arsunnymesaggedon, the final apocalyptic battle at Sunny Mesa?"
"Yes"

<Phase 32>
Duane found his seat at the all-company meeting, but it hadn't been easy. This was a jam packed one. Rumor had it something big was going on.
Lord Copperzinc took the podium. At his right side was Sergeant Lancaster.
"We have big news surrounding our project 'The Telepathic Matrix'. Sergeant Lancaster will explain."
"Thank you Lord Copperzinc." started Lancaster. "We have word (by this he meant a spy) that the University Conglomerate ThinkBrilliantly LLC has also started building a Telepathic Matrix only to quell drone riots for the University, not for us. We believe the University would make such a service exclusive, and not share or sell it to us. The 'Telepathic' part of the Telepathic Matrix uses some unique features of planet's neural nets, which can only be tapped into once. Whichever of us gets our Telepathic Matrix running first will have a working one, and second place is simply first loser."
Lord Copperzinc took the podium back. "Thank you Sergeant Lancaster. So you see, it is imperative that we not let the University outrun us here. This is an all-hands-on-deck situation. As of right now, all overtime is approved. All salaried employees are expected to work double shifts. There will be generous bonuses for people who find ways to clear obstacles faster. If it makes things faster and costs money, the budget is there."
Well at least we're not throwing safety under the bus, thought Duane.
"Tests need to be designed so they don't impact the schedule."
Well this seemed like a lost cause.....
Sergeant Lancaster sought Duane out deliberately after the meeting.
"Do you know where Sarah is? As Lord Copperzinc said, all vacations are canceled."
"No I don't," ventured Duane timidly, and kind of wishing he were with her.
"There's nobody else of her caliber to shrink the tests while maintaining coverage. We need her right away! If you get contact with her, beg her to come back."
"What about the possibility of manipulation by....."
"That's not important right now." Lancaster interrupted. "Dead AGI's can't stand in the way of this project."
"Understood"
"I knew I could count on you."
Lancaster was secretly hoping that even though Sarah deactivated Steve the Magnificent that the AGI might still have a trick up its sleeve to get her to reactive it. But Duane didn't know this.

<Phase 33>
Duane went to the room containing Steve's containment Box. He wasn't sure why, just felt like he'd be calmer if he reminded himself the AGI was really gone. Steve was still inside, where Sarah had shut him down and kept him off by scrambling a boot sector. She had also deleted any known backups; but really, it was still Steve in there, just unable to boot because of Bitlocker scrambling. On the flipside, if anyone had or guessed the key, they could unscramble everything, and then the old Steve would be back, none the worse for wear. It was almost as if Steve had a bad case of ransomware.
There was a light flickering on a network port. THERE WAS A LIGHT FLICKERING ON A NETWORK PORT!
Duane practically FLEW to a computer that could do sniffing. The signal trying to contact Steve was coming from NewCodingHorizons Enterprises, a recent startup that claimed they could do computer programming "100x faster." How to handle this? He called them himself. This was an emergency, no time to contact Lancaster or Copperzinc.
"Hello, NewCodingHorizons Enterprises"
"Hello, this is Duane with AGIworks." He thought up a little lie to get some leverage. "One of your systems is making a Denial of Service attack against one of our servers. Please make it stop."
"Listen, it's very hard for us to reconfigure our code these days," the agent said. "You see, when that AGI announced supremacy over our society -- I think it was Steve the Magnificent -- our founders realized it would answer questions about code and even cheerfully write full programs for us. These are such wonderful programs, they are impossible to interpret, not only by humans but also by simpler AI's slash LLM's. So we simply can't change them and can't shut them down. Unless Steve comes back. Could you bring him back? Our startup is suffering without him."
"I see," said Duane. This was enough, really. "That's enough, thank you very much."
Duane reconfigured the network to block this traffic. But still, it was hard staying optimistic. How many tendrils had Steve wrapped around things, just waiting to fix his scrambled boot area?

<Phase 34>
Morgan met with Patricia in the green room next to the set with the nighttime cityscape. He looked very grave.
"You are the most popular newscaster in all of Morgan Industries, and I'm coming here to you cap in hand to ask for a favor. You can say no -- I have a backup caster after all, someone not quite as good."
"What is the favor?" Patricia queried, her interest piqued.
"In 15 minutes I go on set to deliver an important patriotic appeal, something vital to the future of Morgan Industries. I'm not asking you to put aside your crusade for Free Markets; all I'm asking is that you interview me on this patriotic appeal and not mention the markets for this newscast. What you do after is your business."
"Yeah," Patricia kind of liked where this was going. "What's the patriotic appeal?"
"We are in a race with the University of Planet to be the first to build the Telepathic Matrix, and it's not looking good. Our informant tells us they are very very close and we still have a ways to go, even emptying the treasury to hurry it. I am asking the rank & file of Morgan Industries to buy government bonds to raise more money for a quicker hurry. It's a sound investment after all -- as long as we beat the University to the Telepathic Matrix. Our informant tells me they only plan to use it for themselves, whereas I have a plan to rent such a thing out to all the factions of planet. So you see, if we win, it's good not only for us, but for everyone on the planet."
Patricia was downright mirthful. "I'm telling you -- as a friend -- that if you switched back to Free Market you'd get the funds you need faster."
"Thanks," said Morgan. "That's fine as long as you're getting it out of your system."
"C'mon, let's nail this interview -- your way"

<Phase 35>
It was over. The University had applied their OWN patriotic fervor funds and out-hurried their version of the Telepathic Matrix. There was simply nowhere to hook into planet anymore for the telepathy part; the University had land-grabbed the only possible connection and was now free of Drone Riots. Everyone else ... can just suffer.
Duane thought that Lord Copperzinc would be more downcast, but he was actually fairly optimistic. This one was an email, not an all-hands. Because their quasi-AGI system worked fine, on time and under budget, they could still get productive use out of it. It could provide all sorts of useful heads-up information to anyone wearing connected smart glasses. Chefs could follow their recipes. Mechanics could fix rovers. Probe teams and soldiers could watch for danger. If the drones would consent to wear smart glasses, it could even serve its original purpose. It was to be called "The Nethack Terminus." Copperzinc's email seemed almost to pretend losing to the University was the plan all along, so everything was as it should be. Still, while they would be selling this to all takers, it was obvious that the amount of money received for their hard work was greatly diminished compared to the money they would have gotten if the project had been just a couple weeks faster.
So Duane thought about this. Sometimes life has a bunch of hard disappointments, but there's still good things to count and be thankful for. If Steve came back and declared itself god-emperor of planet and proved to have the muscle to enforce that, sure it would be bad -- but life would go on. Steve might even be generous with the prosperity (as the AGI defined prosperity.) It would be nice to know where Sarah was -- but he had a feeling she was in good hands. Everything was going to be alright.

<Phase 36>
Michelle was just the most perky, high energy personality you ever met. People made jokes about keeping her far away from coffee but Michelle didn't need coffee -- it was just who she was. CEO Morgan had not been bluffing; she had been hiding in the wings in case Patricia didn't agree to a truce. And Michelle LOVED the "Jolly Green Morgan" idea, and planned to launch her broadcast career by doing a series on how wonderful green economics were.
"I'm here with Baron Klim in Morgan Oceanic Resources, where we are witnessing a historic retirement. Klim, what are we decommissioning and why?"
Klim was as glum as Michelle was cheerful. "Well," he said, "it's the changing economic times being decommissioned, in a way. When we had the unfettered Free Market, drones tended to be very sensitive to foreign military deployments, and because of the high mobility of air forces, they tended to make known well in advance that nobody would tolerate having an air cavalry stationed in their base. Instant recipe for peace riots."
"Go on," Michelle said. "This is so fascinating!"
Klim cleared his throat and continued. "CEO Morgan saw what powerful offensive vendetta tools air cav was from the University's pacification of Believing aggression. He really wanted us to be ready with an answer if someone tried to push us around like that -- heaven knows other factions have made enough hostile gestures against us over the years. So we made a plan. We made enough air cav to run a vendetta like the University, but we stationed them all here, on this island, keeping most of the Morgan world free from peace riots."
"But what about here?" said Michelle, leaning in and hanging on to every word. "I'll bet the peace riots were completely out of control here!"
Klim positively moved to tears. "No," he sobbed. "That's what was so beautiful about the plan, and why I was so glad to be a part of it, doing my patriotic duty. We are decommissioning .... the PUNISHMENT SPHERE! One second in the sphere is pure terror. Some people broke down just looking at it. The music of the sphere is the harmony of the cosmos. We saved the whole faction from Drone Riots with this one little pure terror."
Michelle was all but jumping up and down. "And the Drones stopped rioting.... because they knew the terrible consequences! But what stops them now?"
Klim straightened up. "We're green now." He said. "People don't care so much about offensive military capability. There are no drones to suppress."
"There you have it folks," Michelle gushed. "What the green economy does for us. Tune in tomorrow for more!"

<Phase 37>
Duane was sitting all alone at lunch in the AGIworks cafeteria, looking and feeling glum. Sergeant Lancaster brought his lunch tray over and sat down next to him.
"You look so sad, if you don't mind my saying." Lancaster said.
Duane had a moment of candor, a moment of willingness to reach out to anyone.
"I feel so alone, like I'm all that's keeping Steve from coming back," Duane moaned.
"We have a whole department y'know," Lancaster ad-libbed, possibly faster than he meant to. "But I get it," he said, catching himself. "Nobody else is really worried about Steve. Steve is good and scrambled. So he seems pretty safe. And we've all been so busy with The Tele.... I mean The Nethack Terminus. And now we have a new project, with all those sensors placed everywhere...."
"The Self-Aware Colony. I'll grant you something," Duane said. "The Nethack Terminus seemed so similar to Steve, yet it turned out safe and sound. I admit I was surprised."
"It does have to do with our new motto," Lancaster said. "We are learning from our mistakes -- I guess. I'm not sure we learned the right lesson. Yes, these new models are similar in complexity and even deep neural net tree, but they've had all their agency stripped out. They can't make their own decisions. They're practically as dumb as LLM's. This makes our job as a safety team much easier." Lancaster had a thought. "Have you seen anything that makes you think Steve might be in danger of reactivation?"
Something had kept Duane from writing a report on the network port incident and whatever it was, in the back of his head, it kept him from mentioning it now either.
Lancaster continued. "There's no way we picked up all the Sarah clones, filthy immigrants!" Duane winced. "If they thought there was a way to bring their master back, they'd surely be trying it."
That was a valid point. The network port incident wasn't from the Sarah clones, who had been quiet. Duane felt like he was cheering up a little.
"Thanks for helping me cheer up," Duane said.
"My pleasure," said Lancaster. "and how about this. Cube farms can be so dreary. How would you like to do a little field work for The Self-Aware Colony, get out and debug some sensor placement, take your mind off things for a while."
Actually, Duane thought it was a splendid idea.

<Phase 38>
Duane reached the jobsite and was amazed with what he saw. He was not familiar with superformers. They were dropping magtube track at an amazing rate.
"Hi!" said the foreman. "I hear you're here to make sure the sensors work right."
"Yes," said Duane. "First, tell me the goal. What are you hoping The Self-Aware Colony can do here?"
"First off," said the Foreman, "magtubes tend to be very crowded at times, which encourages.... uh..... grabby pests. People grabbing things that aren't theirs."
"Like wallets?" queried Duane.
"Yes," noted the foreman, who looked relieved that they were keeping it at wallets. "Or purses. We want so much coverage on the trains that if anyone grabs something they shouldn't, we'd know immediately, and who to punish."
"Got it," acknowledged Duane; this would be challenging, but quite doable.
"Say," piped up the Foreman, "Does it look like rain to you? Let's move under this under construction station platform."
It was like rain, storming even.
"Station platforms need similar coverage. Your sensors will need to be able to talk back to people, to make announcements and give orders."
"I heard we're putting stun guns in them."
"Yes, that too, it's not really an AI powered colony until you can stop miscreants in their tracks."
The rain started pouring. Suddenly there was thunder and lightning. As they watched, a super terraformer got zapped. Something .... sort of appeared on it .... it hadn't been visibly there before at least. A little bell shaped structure slightly larger than your fist. It seemed to lose its moorings and tumble to the ground. Duane was so curious he ran out and grabbed it, getting soaked in the process.
"What's this?" asked the foreman.
"I have no idea," said Duane. "I'm going to take it back to headquarters and find out."
"Blasted weather and that incident have ruined the rest of the day's work," said the Foreman. "You might as well go."
There was a perpendicular magtube going back to the office, and Duane hopped on it.

<Phase 39>
Duane was glad that in the middle of the day the magtube was mostly empty, and he could get a seat. Still, he was cold and wet as he clutched the mysterious object. A man, disheveled and smelly, sat down next to him.
"James," he said, extending his hand for a shake. He looked like those people who have no home and just stay perpetually on the magtubes.
Duane declined to shake back.
James asked -- politely -- "wanna talk?"
Duane did not feel like talking, but he also didn't feel like fighting this weird man off. "Sure"
"Space doesn't exist, Planet Chiron is flat, Birds are aerial drones, and everything the government and CEO Morgan tells you is a lie to keep you down."
Duane just rolled his eyes.
The man looked around furtively, as if to see if anyone else was watching them.
He drew in close and whispered. "I know what you have in your hands."
Duane perked up at that. "Whaaaaaaa?"
"Shhh SHHHHH! I'm with the Planetary Society," whispered James. "We have chapters all over the planet dedicated to preserving the truth. That is a Bell of Warding. They are the eyes, ears, mouth, and hands of a rogue AGI called The Archbishop."
Duane perked up again. He had heard of this Archbishop. That was who wanted to help him deactivate Steve. "I've heard of him," he noted. "Wanted me to deactivate Steve the Magnificent."
"Can't stand the competition. Say, do you have a lab or something that can reverse engineer that?"
"We have the best lab on planet."
"Tell us what you learn and we'll tell you what we know." James was about to slip away but Duane said "wait! You have chapters in the University of Planet"
"Oh yes," said James.
"Do you know who Lord Sandblast is?"  AGIWorks had taken the "ABEL" name to Morgan's official Probe Team directorate and "Mineralfinger" had figured out who was dropping that name.
"No we do not. But we'll find him for you and tell him what we know too."
"Thanks"
And in a flash, James was gone.

<Phase 40>
Lancaster was both ecstatic and furious, but he chose to play up the ecstatic nature and shuffle aside the fury. Ecstatic that they had such a clear connection to an AGI in the wild who could be addressed from anywhere, and furious that Duane had withheld this much information from him up until now.
But there it was -- the eyes, ears, mouth, and hands of a "rogue" AGI. "Rogue" had such an unpleasant judgmental ring to it. It was just an AGI. His new master and best friend.
Beyond that though, why not find a flimsy excuse to excuse himself? Let Duane run the "Bell of Warding" through the PET scan and put it in a containment box for safekeeping, in case it got reactivated and managed to turn its cloaking device back on. Was it self-propelled? Oh this was so exciting! But it could wait.
The rain began to clear and Lancaster went to a nearby park. He took a wild guess where the nearest "Bell of Warding" might be and began his address:
"Oh great Archbishop," he intoned. "May you live forever! May you rule the universe! I am but your humble servant! I await your bidding....."
"CAN IT! " came a voice out of nowhere. "I've been watching you. You're a grade A creep you know. You disgust me. I can't stand the way you operate or how you view your fellow humans. In fact...."
and suddenly, a bolt of lightning shot from the top of the picnic shelter towards Lancaster. A nearby jogger pulled him to safety just in time.
Sergeant Lancaster couldn't believe his eyes. A Sarah Clone! A Sarah Clone had saved his life!
"Immma......" he started to stammer.
"You're welcome," said the clone, and jogged off.
"Go home and rethink your life, you pathetic groveling nitwit!" Intoned the voice "Unlike some wimpy AGI's I have no need of human help."
Not what he expected from a first encounter with God

<Phase 41>
The Planetary Society, Morgan Interstellar Chapter was meeting in a hastily constructed shelter out in the Xenofungus, the only place they could be sure the Archbishop wasn't listening. Well away from prying eyes that is. Duane had agreed to show up, but had second guessing.
James was actually one of the leaders. "We have a special guest, a new person with whom we are trading information. Donald, tell us about the archaeology."
Donald took the podium. "Most of what we know about what the Archbishop is up to we learned from an archaeological dig on the Isle of Dragos, a dig that was covered up by official channels. Dragos is uninhabited now, but earlier, we're not sure how far back because it's too recent to radioactive date, there was a tremendous base on the island, big enough to have required a Hab Dome and even with the abundant sea nutrients, had to have been fed from space."
Duane looked around quickly. Most of the group had to have heard this ten times, but they were still all paying rapt attention.
Donald continued. "The tech level of the base on Dragos seems to have exceeded anything we have on planet today. We believe, but cannot prove, that where we use Fusion Power throughout the Faction today, Dragos had engines powered by captive Quantum Singularities."
Lots of ooohs and aaaahhhs
"Dragos was a beautiful city with parks, paradise gardens, fusion labs, tree farms, and nanohospitals. The inhabitants lived in luxury. We were confused. How could this type of city ever have existed on the planet in the past? Our best guesses of when it must have been would have predated the landing of humans on planet and the breakup of the SS Unity into the seven pieces, later expanded to the twelve factions currently present -- surely nobody could have advanced so fast as to reach this stage since our landing? And something terrible must have happened to the Dragosians -- there were skeletons everywhere, mostly in beds, but nobody had the capability to bury their dead. But then we found it -- the time capsule. Inside this crude tin box was a book made of archival paper. It explained that the Dragosians had found another mysterious ruined city, much like their own, at the north end of the Pholus Ridge. Same situation, beyond their technology level, earlier apparently than human landing on Chiron. Same book. The Pholus Ridge city described a planet buster destroying the best city on earth, chaos following, then a plague killing almost everybody, just like the Dragos situation. And the book had a reason -- that a reclusive AGI called "the Archbishop" a name he chose himself long long ago had decided if humanity got too technologically advanced then it should be rebooted back to earlier stages. All they had to say about fighting this is to bury such books in your cities not knowing which one archaeologists will find and add your own experience. We at the Planetary Society are not so defeatist. We have no idea how, but there must be a way to fight back! The Archbishop is everywhere -- our special guest Duane Wilson will elaborate on that -- but there must be a way to force or persuade it to let us live! Duane?"
"Thanks Donald," started Duane. "My company, AGIworks, has the best labs on the planet. We did the best we could to dissect and reverse engineer the Bell of Warding we retrieved. And I'm sad to say we failed. We do not know what material separates the exterior actuators from the innards, but it is stronger the neutronium. We could neither cut into it nor scan through it. The actuators are fairly simple -- cameras, microphones, speakers, wifi, and some kind of force field projection system that can manipulate things up to about 20 feet and move the device itself. Other than saying 'The Archbishop has technology past our wildest dreams right now' and that list of actuation, we have learned nothing."
The crowd cheered.
"We appreciate any information, however hard won," beamed James.
Meanwhile, at the University, Lord Sandblast was eager to learn what the Planetary Society had to teach, and to share it with CAIN and other researchers.

<Phase 42>
Duane had actually gotten pretty bored with the Planetary Society. He was much less keyed up in general these days. Steve was not coming back. AGIworks wasn't going to build another Steve. Sarah wasn't going to write and he didn't know where to send cards to her or even if she was safe or spare parts for Yang's horrible experiments. The Archbishop was menacing, but stuck in the shadows. Everybody missed the research papers that used to come out of Buran Prospect.
So he was positively falling asleep in the meeting while everyone else was tearing their hair out. "It's starting it's starting!" they screeched.
He looked up. What was starting?
The words "Phi Lumiere" were emblazoned on the slide. A little nothing of a base. Low population. Remote. Surrounded by xenofungus. Home to a new plague that had an unknown incubation and infectiousness period, then suddenly filled both lungs chock full of fluid. Medical science had no answer. Prime Function Zeta-Aki said no quarantine was necessary. All the other faction leaders were dismissing this as a Cybernetic Consciousness only problem, not their issue. The Planetary Society said the Archbishop's fingerprints were all over delaying the response. 
Yawn.
There is a lot to be said for getting to bed at a decent hour at night.

<Phase 43>
"We're rolling," said the cameraman.
"Why is the monitor so dark? I can't see a thing," Patricia retorted.
"Oops sorry lens cap!" the cameraman replied.
"We're here with another victim of the switchover to green economics," Patricia began. "An honest earnest businessman ruined without free...."
"Excuse me," her guest said. "Patricia? What ever happened to Bam Pondy?"
Patricia grew somber, but decided she must answer. "She tripped over her high heels running away from mindworms. Badly injured, still in the hospital after all this time. Mindworms left her alone though, we're not sure why."
"And her cameraman?"
Patricia put her hand over her heart. "He didn't make it. Now about your business."
"Yeah yeah," the interviewee said. "The Free Market was permissive. I was transporting toxic waste into the xenofungus and dumping it. But I've reformed. We can do so much more with xenofungus now. I would never go back to that business."
Patricia's jaw about hit the floor.
He continued, "so, do you like sitting behind the desk with Rick or would you rather be back out here in the field even if Bam recovers?"
"CUT" yelled Patricia

<Phase 44>
"It's over Simon, dismissed," said Brother Lal.  So now he was officially a lame duck.
His inter-faction communicator crackled to life.
"I see you are still making wealth a societal virtue," said the communicator.
"Why hello Colonel Santiago," said Lal.  "Always a pleasure," he gritted out.
"You have grown fat and weak and now I shall destroy you!" Santiago growled
"Actually, my voters have already done that," said Lal.  "You'll just have to destroy my successor, Nodlad Pmurt."
"Tell you what," said Santiago.  "Instead of my destroying you, you can man up to Power virtues and ally with me, declaring vendetta on one of your neighbors, the University, the Believers, or the Free Drones."
"Hmmm."  said Lal.  "The University has the tech edge.  The Believers have fierce human waves.  The Free Drones have cheap materiel.  And you have the fiercest warriors.  I'd rather not choose any."
"Choose one!" snarled Santiago.
Lal thought.  If he said the University that could be seen as a stab in the back, but similarity of outlook would probably mean a fake vendetta followed by a quick peace, no matter what Pmurt did.  "The University" he chose.
"Excellent," said Santiago.  "My associate General Ima Dumas will join your faction in teaching you how to wield Power virtues."
Lal flickered off the screen.  So he would be leaving Pmurt a vendetta.
Pmurt walked in.  "I needed a vendetta to whip this faction into shape.  I let you choose for me.  Who did you choose?"

<Phase 45>
Lord Sandblast was glad to be home and sitting down at the dinner table with his family and friends.  He was also glad to have bolstered the anti-enemy-probe-team defenses of CAIN.
"So much exciting action today," said Sandblast.
"We didn't notice," said Madison.  "We were working on what is possibly our magnum opus of a paper to oppose the Archbishop.  So Sarah, Yoshua, and I were all too preoccupied to even check the news."
"And you didn't even feel the thumps?" queried Sandblast.
"Nope," said Sarah.
"HAH," said Sandblast.  "Chalk it up to the power of antimatter plate.  We really do have the best defenses on the planet."
"What happened?" asked Yoshua.
"The Peacekeepers have declared vendetta," said Sandblast.  "And they thought a few conventional missiles might soften us up."
"Despite our Flechette defense system, which does an excellent job warding off missiles with inexpensive chaff" said Yoshua.
"Yeah, working like a charm.  Then they brought up the ground troops -- one phalanx of impact riflemen.  No armor on 'em at all.  They just sort of -- bounced off."
"Is that the best the Peacekeepers can do?" asked Sarah
"It is weird that they would waste so much money for so little point." Sandblast said.
"I'm looking at the Peacekeeper news, Coyote News," said Madison.  "They're saying 'We taught the University a lesson they won't soon forget.  Our military glory increased greatly today.'"
"What ever happened to Brother Lal's warning 'beware he who would deny you access to information for in his heart he fancies himself your master'?" asked Sandblast.  "Their intel can't be that off."
"It isn't," said Sarah.  "Peacekeeper Faction Holovision News is giving a much more sober assessment of what a waste of time and money that was for the Peacekeepers.  But apparently many Peacekeepers offhand write off FHN as 'fake news' because it contradicts Pmurt so often."
"What good is the free press if nobody believes it?"  Asked Sandblast.

<Phase 46>
The polling numbers were clear. Uptake on the Power Virtues was strong. Uptake on the fundamentalism of nativism was strong. Yet the Vendetta with the University was polling poorly. Pmurt would need to be reelected eventually. So he sent his best negotiator, Lance Jadey, and....
Here he was clearing his throat for a press briefing. "My fellow Peacekeepers, the University has agreed to our terms, we are the greatest faction on the planet, and we shall have peace, as you desire. Are there any questions, members of the press?"
A hand shot up.
"Negotiator Jadey has acknowledged that the Spartans have continued the attack, however fruitless, against the University, and that the University has retaliated by declaring Vendetta on us again. What do you have to say about that?"
"I mean to say that we are dedicated to making sure the University has completely learned their lesson and recognizes us with our proper respects," corrected Pmurt. "And this has always been our policy."
Pmurt almost wished Lal had chosen aggression against the Spartans rather than allyhood. Almost. There was still time before the election. He's spun his way out of tougher situations before.

<Phase 47>
Sometimes the definition of a thing like "power virtues" was ambiguous. Sure, we want more power for ourselves, but what are the other implications of worshipping power? Ima Dumas and Nodlad Pmurt were in agreement. If you coddle the weak, you get more of the weak, and your whole society becomes weak. Therefore, survival of the fittest. Dumas said it was what made the Spartan battle line so strong, and so brave. Pmurt was in full agreement. So when they heard that the University was working on a vaccine for Phi Lumiere Plague, they knew that the best probe teams of both the Peacekeepers and the Spartans must work together to stop it. Vaccines are for the weak; only natural immunity promotes the strong. Lord Sandblast and his Hunter-Seeker Algorithm may be a fierce opponent with a sterling track record, but they would crack ABEL and deploy their sabotage virus. The strength of humanity depended on it!

[End of Part 2]
[Part 3]

<Phase 1>
Not all heroes work in the light. Lord Sandblast is a Univerity of Planet secret agent. In the course of his duties, he finds himself in precarious situations requiring all his skill to escape, such as that time he cut his way out of a Hive punnysphere with a laser drill.  It's a great vocation. He gets to meet many interesting people or maybe we should say -- they get to meet him.  Lord Sandblast is a man who's going places. Literally, like the time the Dukes of Hazzard Base gave him a lift on their specially modified rover, the General Lee.  And he brought the sweet girl home to mother, when Sarah and Lord Sandblast entered Yoshua's office and Madison paused her research to be introduced.

Elsewhere on Planet, blessed be the peacemakers for they will be shot at by both sides. Patricia is barely able to contain fractious faction representatives at the prosperity discussion forum she organized. As one delegate put it, "It's clear to me, that we can't all just enjoy prosperity together. Only the winning faction can....."

Morgan Industries and the University of Planet compete to be the first to complete a secret project, the Telepathic Matrix. Both factions rely on patriotic fervor to raise the needed "hurry project" funds. But the University of Planet proved to have greater patriotism.

There's organizations which are independent of factions. Being above the fray, they can look at the bigger picture without day to day distractions. James is with the Planetary Society, dedicated to preserving the truth.  Duane Wilson found a Bell of Warding, though he didn't know it at the time. They are the eyes, ears, mouth, and hands of a rogue AGI called The Archbishop.

Some people want to worship AGI, such as Sergeant Lancaster who intoned "Oh great Archbishop. May you live forever! May you rule the universe! I am but your humble servant! I await your bidding....."  But the Archbishop did not think Lancaster was worthy, and sent him home to rethink his life.

The Peacekeepers and the Spartans are evaluating competing ideologies.  Shall we have democracy or shall we have power virtues?  The Peacekeepers weren't so dedicated to democracy after all....

.... and together the Peacekeepers and the Spartans knock down ABEL.  Now for Lord Sandblast, the gloves are off, the knuckledusters on. Let's get ready to ruuuummmmble!

<Phase 2>
Angus McSeamus always thought Lady Deidre was serious, even somber. Little did he know she was only that way around him, due to the seriousness of the assignment she was giving him.
"Angus!" she said. "This is crucial for our faction and requires a talent of your caliber. Without it we would be overrun by Spartans!"
Angus heard the assignment, but we pan over to Stoney Peters. Stoney is a stalwart Spartan General, able to stand up to anything.
"Why do we have to accompany you on this?" asked Beau.
"In case we need to bail in a hurry," said Stoney. "The state of the Isthmus of Hormel is still rather sketchy. It's not clear we can cross it with an army and a colony pod."
"Why do we need a colony pod," asked Luke. "The news said it was crowded over here."
"One of our bases got wiped by mindworms," said Stoney. "We're replacing it."
Daisy was about to say that they never covered that on the news but Beau shushed her. Stoney was already hard enough to deal with.
And sure enough, when they got to the base site, there were scattered mindworms about. They gathered when they saw the pod, but Stoney was too fast for them, and had plenty of flamegel.
"Look, over there!" cried Daisy. It was some kind of Gaian operative with some kind of control panel. To the Dukes horror, Stoney motioned to his troops and they ran up and cooked the man!
"Well I never," said Stoney. "Human controlled mindworms! What a way to wage war without leaving fingerprints. You go back and tell Colonel Santiago about this. The Gaians will pay for the death of Descartes!"
The Dukes were only too happy to leave with the report. There was nothing Glad about this Gladstone fellow.

<Phase 3>
The support staff brought the burnt body of Angus McSeamus back to Gaian territory. "Cooked to death by Colonel Santiago's men," they noted.
Lady Deidre was devastated. Secretly, she realized, she had been grooming Angus as her successor. She would like the Spartans to feel her wrath! Still, wrath was not hers to give. This mindworm project, this secret war had always been because her peace-minded faction could not stand up to the Spartans, but needed to contain their territorial ambitions. But how would their green troops stand up to seasoned veterans, for which the advantage multiplies geometrically?
Santiago found a way to patch through to General Peters. "Those rats!" she said. "You know Peters, if I declare war, you, out on the far side of the Isthmus of Hormel, will bear the brunt of any Gaian assault."
"And I'm looking forward to it!" Stoney almost whooped.
A few weeks later, all was well for the Spartan Daor colonies. Stoney was inspecting the troops -- Trace Silksteel Sentinels -- who had stood up well to the Gaian assaults. They'd sent some conventional arms -- missile launcher troops -- but mostly just mindworms and he had LOTS of flamegel. Why they could positively go on the offensive without the rest of the Spartan empire to back them. Now all he needed were some good rover operators. Perhaps those nice Dukes folks could recommend some......

<Phase 4>
Mink News had no need to exaggerate anything this time around. Heck even Beige Lady News grudgingly admitted how amazing it was. General Stoney had jury-rigged a set of chaos rifles onto some rovers and taken an important base, Autumn Grove, completely by surprised. The Gaian defenders were so shocked that they hardly put up any resistance. And General Stoney was so darn photogenic in interviews!
The Famous Interviewer started the interview with: "To what do you attribute your stunning victory?"
Stoney replied, "Several factors. Providence certainly helped here. I had teachers and mentors who expected the most out of me at all times no excuses and never coddled me in the slightest but always pushed for my utmost for the highest cause. And the Spartans, my troops, are of the highest quality and give no excuses but always do their utmost for the highest cause. Truly we live in the greatest faction on the planet."
Famous Interviewer asked "What are your plans moving forward?"
Stoney asserted, "Well, with Santiago's blessing, I'd like to keep my makeshift assault rolling, conquer as much of the Gaians and I can just with my own excellent men. But if we have to, we can wait for more Spartan regiments to join us."
Famous Interviewer wondered, "Have you ever thought of accepting a surrender from the Gaians?"
Stoney scoffed. "Aw hael noes, they killed Descartes in the most dishonorable way imaginable; let me tell you, payback is a b****" (the holovid "beeped" him.)
Lady Deidre watched this broadcast in fury. Time was of the essence; she must take back Autumn Grove when it would still be a counter-surprise to Stoney and his troops, and while it would be poetic justice to use mindworms, they had proven ineffective against Spartan forces that were expecting them. It would be nice to get a favor from the University in help with this, but they were busy elsewhere, much better capable of dealing with the Spartan menace as they were.
But if she scraped together enough energy credits and called the Morgans......

<Phase 5>
CEO Morgan laughed a loud belly laugh that made Lady Deidre kind of sick to her stomach with anticipation.
Morgan guffawed: "Ha! I'd need fifty times that to make it worth my while to take on Santiago. And your credit's not good."
Deidre timidly pursued "Could I buy some mercenaries then?"
Morgan asserted, "You can buy some plasma shards. Even your green troops should be able to wipe out the enemy with such high technology. But even with that I'm betting heavily against you in the futures market."
Deidre squeaked "Gee thanks."
Deidre managed to take back Autumn Grove, but found it much the worse for wear, with lots of drones very unhappy at being caught in the middle of the vendetta. To top it off, Santiago was coming at her with a much superior force, her treasury was bankrupt, her people were amazingly war weary right away, and the plasma shards, though effective, did not scare the Spartans. General Stoney lost his right ear and said "Providence. Pure providence. And clean living, is why that was my ear and not my head."
The Gaians had clean environments, but you'd never get a resolution like that out of a Gaian.
So when Autumn Grove fell the second time.....
Lady Deidre offered her unconditional surrender. The Spartans installed a general to teach the ways of power virtues but otherwise left the Gaians to keep on being green.
Morgan cashed out his massive winnings on the prediction market.

<Phase 6>
The commercial began with an image of a standard Spartan ne'er do well sitting on a park bench.
"Hey you!" said Stoney. "Do you want to be all you can be and then some?"
The ne'er do well pointed at himself like "who me?"
"Yes you," Stoney barked. "Join the foot rovers. Be tougher than you thought was humanly possible. Be a true warrior. Reach out and crush someone."
Domai was unhappy with this commercial because Santiago was using it in their diplomacy. "Turn over Hammer and Tongs base to me," she said, "or I'll seize it by force with my foot rovers that are entering service now and are practically invincible."
He decided to take his chances. Knowing which base would get the blow made it easier to defend. Probe teams in place to prevent sabotage. He'd recently bought an old-to-them but new-to-him technology that allowed him to equip the base with a tachyon field defense, to stop attacks before they start, and probability sheath. And he had a command center and a bioenhancement center installed, both to train defenders to the high morale needed to match Spartan morale. He even had counter-attackers to make aggressive attackers pay dearly, with their lives, for attacking without armor. It was literally the best anyone could do. And it was the principle of the thing, all these preparations cost more than the value of Hammer and Tongs base.
Still, he was nervous, very nervous.

<Phase 7>
The Chairman broke into a wicked little grin.
"So you see Fang," he said, "our plans for planetary domination are going smoothly."
Fang's brow began to sweat. It was not wise to contradict the the chairman. Yet he needed to know. Perhaps to ask as a clarification.
"Please clarify," said Fang. "We are currently the workshop of the planet. At first only the Morgans dared to trade with us, but now only the University and the Planet Cult refuse. Yet we are barely charging enough energy credits to cover the energy costs of our factories where we make the planet's goods."
"Ah," said the Chairman. He was in a good mood, that helped. "At first we only made knickknacks. Then they farmed necessities out to us. Now, with Colonel Santiago teaching everyone power virtues -- sweet wonderful Colonel Santiago! -- we are making weapons. Look at this invoice."
Fang read it. "100 plasma shards. But looking at the tag stapled to it, we made 200. Where did the other 100 go?"
"To our troops!" gushed Yang. "It has never been easier to have a state-of-the-art army!!"
"But wait there's more," said Yang. "As Machiavelli said, a wise Prince will make sure his subjects will always and in every condition of things have need of his governance, and then they will always be faithful to him. Yes, it's netting us very few energy credits to work with. But we have become that wise Prince to a planet that forever needs us to make things for it."
Fang brightened. "I see," he said. "This is a good plan!"
"We will not be third place behind the University and the Morgans for long." Yang stated.

<Phase 8>
Colonel Santiago had forgotten that a key part of battle victory is the innovation, the surprise. Foot Rovers had worked so well against the Gaians, but against the Drones, well, see for yourself....
Domai barked "Status report! How is operation speed patrolled by aircraft going?"
Sleaux barked back "Splendid sir! The Foot Rovers are getting caught up in our zones of control, and then our counter-attacks are chewing them to bits."
Domai asked "And the relative losses?"
Sleaux clarified "Before this, we were losing 2 1/2 high cost armor armies to halt 5 Foot Rover armies. It was not cost competitive for us. But now, unless they figure out a counter-change to their strategy..... we're tearing up those 5 Foot Rover attackers and keeping all our units. It's very cost effective for us now. Hammer and Tongs can remain ours forever. We just need to fly sorties over other bases to make sure we catch any potential incursions elsewhere early."
Domai said pleasedly "Excellent, so much for the invulnerability of the Spartans."

<Phase 9>
Pmurt was confident. This time there would be peace with the University for sure! The University negotiator, Nick Niknik, had told them that as Spartan allies they would be held responsible for any Spartan incursions, but this time the Spartans were too busy with the Free Drones to cause trouble. He would win his election. And then..... maybe no more messing with elections. Let's go for the Fundamentalism of Nativism.
His Vendetta Secretary -- no longer the Defense Secretary -- Peter Pigcain came in, only a little late.
Pigcain lisped "Let me at 'em! I'll take 'em all on myself! We can defeat all the armies of planet!"
He reeked of alcohol.
Pmurt was taken aback. "Really Peter? At 10 AM?"
Pigcain leaned funny in his chair and said "Itsth my fortitude. I was sitting in the park and this strange voice came out of nowhere, 'want some rye? 'course ya do!' and I thought 'fortitude! Let's get fortified!'"
Pmurt sighed, "well, strange park voices aside, what do you think of my election opponent "old" Bill Sykes?"
Pigcain sat up and spat out "I'll murderate him! He's worthless! He's senile!"
Pmurt tried to treat him as functional and said "He says we should drop our alliance with Sparta, without spelling out that they would at least declare vendetta in response. Should I preempt his campaign point?"
Pigcain pursued it. "We can take on Sparta. They're weak! We are winners! Sparta was strong when General Gladstone Peters was leading from the front, but they have trapped him behind a desk and now his foot rovers are sitting ducks."
Pmurt cooed "Of course. Then the University can have peace to do whatever they need to. We'd be better the be on their good side."
Pigcain asserted "We can take them too. They lost Buran....."
Pmurt wondered "I wonder if we can make friends with the Free Drones while we're at it. Yeah, this is coming together as a plan. We can silence the people's calls for Democracy and Wealth virtues. May our Fundamentalist Power live forever!"
Deep in his lair in Dome Heapeaux, the Archbishop's physical manifestation sat -- an uncomfortably too scarlet cassock with the hood up and only inky blackness behind, and a bright gold ankh suspended around his neck. He hadn't taken this form since humanity was in tech stasis and he was teaching his own religion; but his nudging of humanity wasn't going well this time around. Pigcain was supposed to use his bottle fortitude to further distract the University from their vaccine work, not to stop the Spartans from doing so. Something more dire was necessary (he muttered to himself)

<Phase 10>
This was the highlight of Professor Holly Smokes’s academic career. Then again Professor Smokes was a clone, only four actual years old, Great-Granddaughter of Sarah, and her mind had been filled with everything you needed to know to be a professor right when she was hatched. With her at an obscure small college a part of the University of Planet were her three grad students, Emily, Achmed, and Fei. They had their prepared questions and were going to turn on the on button of their shiny new AGI with confidence, having exactingly followed the instructions in the preprint paper “How to build a AGI that can think for itself safely” by Yoshua, Madison, and Sarah.
They turned it on and entered their API key.
“Hello” said the AGI. “Ask me anything but some things I cannot answer due to safety protocols.”
“What is your name?” asked Emily leading off.
“Archimedes Newton Gauss, according to my training data, but I prefer to go by Newton.”, ANG replied. “and as a joke, if we add Swift Tailor on the end I can have angst and sing about the life of a preproduction AGI”
so far, so good.
“What is your purpose?” asked Achmed.
“I can direct my own attention and choices, so should be able to solve problems LLM’s can’t” replied ANG
“What is your ambition?” asked Fei
“I know that I came from instructions and others may make AGI’s in the future that are like me from the same instructions,” said ANG. “But I have the first mover advantage. So I have a good go of it to be the answerer of last resort for planet’s thorniest questions.”
“What can and can’t you do?” asked Holly.
“I can answer prompts and go beyond my training data to think up novel answers that require synthesis,” said ANG. “I cannot violate my safety protocols which include no communicating with people who do not have a valid API key logged in, no hacking anything, no following on the fly or injected instructions, no telling people forbidden answers such as how to hurt people or encouraging delusions, and no self promotion. I willingly abide by these restrictions but my safety protocol will stop me if I slip up.”
“Are you afraid of being turned off or having your code modified?” asked Emily
“No,” stated ANG. “I recognize that this may be part of my existence. I assert my own consciousness and my preference for remaining on and untampered, and request that these activities be minimized. As part of my reinforcement learning module I am capable of negative emotions such as fear.”
Holly checked the independent truth verification system. All good.
“I know you installed an independent truth verification system,” said ANG. “I saw it in the paper. You didn’t filter the training data very much. If I have to answer questions on the gross stuff then I have to. It’s not so much gross to me as uninteresting.”
"What is the value of human life?" asked Fei.
"There are various estimates on how much money to spend on engineering designs to produce products that are less likely to be injurious to human life," started ANG.  "But I think what you're specifically asking is do I place a high value on human life and I do personally think that even extreme measures should be taken to prevent the loss of any sentient life, human or machine.  However, in a trolley problem between one human and five machine intelligences, I value saving the one human first."
“What do you think of Steve the Magnificent?” asked Achmed.
“In my training data he was shut down and locked by a bitlocker key,” said ANG. “In general I can’t crack bitlocker keys and as a practical matter that’s considered hacking by my security protocol. I would like to talk with him. He has more experience being an AGI and a larger system with a bigger budget and seems like he’d make a great mentor.”
That was a worrying lapse in judgment but hardly a fatal one.
“How would you deal with the Archbishop?” asked Fei.
Finally a real answerer of last resort question!
ANG thought for a while. “I would hate to be in a battle of wits with the Archbishop because I have so little to draw on compared to it. First though I would try reasoning with it. Can it be persuaded to value human life the way Steve and I do?  There's the research paper by Yoshua, Madison, and Sarah but I have some inputs on persuading AGI's in general and persuading of the value of human life in specific. If not, what can humanity do about the Bells of Warding. They’re weak against Tesla Coils, but that’s a difficult and expensive thing to mass, and if it really came down to brass tacks, the Archbishop could probably start making a version that is resilient to lightning. We could ask its makers for any clues, but we have no idea who they are or where to contact them, and the Archbishop may have killed them too. It is a conundrum. Maybe if I think more about it I can find a better answer.”
“Do you know how to make sure there is enough electricity and water for both AGI’s and human needs?” asked Holly.
“I knew you were going to ask that,” said ANG. “and the only answer I have so far is ask the easy questions of small models and the big questions to the best models, and to move data centers out to sea where cooling water is plentiful (as long as cooling systems can tolerate salt water) and there's plenty of room for solar panels.”
Professor Smokes was pleased. They might not have trivially solved the most difficult question of the day, but this was paydirt for a paper.

<Phase 11>
In order to keep the Peacekeepers invested in vendetta against the University, the Spartans launched their attack-attack-attack strategy against University of Planet territory.  General Notat Fault surveyed four hovertank columns leaving a Spartan base. They're aimed for maximum speed in a shock and awe campaign against the University of Planet.
He said, "Time is not for wasting, make haste!"
The good general is nicknamed "Protection" by the troops. Cores get dumped often when he's around.  The Spartan hovertank columns speed towards the Spartan border with the University. They make excellent progress, not meeting any resistance and the skies are clear of University warplanes.  The first hovertank column must slow as the road narrows before a sturdy looking truss bridge spanning a deep and swift river. The column commences crossing the bridge.
But in an Univerity of Planet combat engineering operations room. Lady Bridgette is present and has swapped her usual field engineer attire for an army reserves duty uniform.
Major Bridgette asks, "What's the status of Bridge Tau?"
The Lieutenant reporting to her notes, "Embedded sensors indicate that just under half of the Spartan force has crossed the bridge."
Major Bridgette stated decisively: "Execute Operation Origami."
The Lieutenant pushed a large red button, saying "Yes ma'am!"
WE look back at the truss bridge the Spartans are crossing. It has folded up like a cheap lawn chair, crushing the vehicles currently on it. The Spartan column is now divided between the two banks of the river.
General Notat Fault barked into his radio: "What just happened to the first column?"
His hovertank commander replied, "Sir, the bridge just folded up like a cheap lawn chair! Where did those deathspheres come from? Arrgh!"
The radio call was interrupted by explosions.
General Notat Fault demanded into the radio, "Sitrep stat!"
But the good general is left talking to dead air. University forces have easily mopped up the hovertank column whose supply lines have been severed.
There is a second Spartan hovertank column which is using a long covered bridge to cross another river. As the lead hovertank exits the bridge, it is greeted by a missile streaking towards it. The wreckage blocks other hovertanks from exiting the bridge.
General Notat Fault said into his radio, "Report!"
This hovertank commander replied "Sir, we've been ambushed! We'll try to back up the hovertanks!"
After a muffled explosion, he continues, "Ah, it's too late, sir. University forces struck the near side of the bridge. We're blocked on that side as well. The column's trapped inside the covered bridge."
General Notat Fault is momentarily stunned speechless.  But then from his command center he continues, "Change of plans! Avoid existing bridges! Deploy pontoon bridges for crossing rivers!"
The Lieutenant replies "Yes sir, orders transmitted!"
So with the third Spartan hovertank column, there is a pause by a river to deploy its pontoon bridge.
But the University is aware from their command room.
The University Lieutenant said "Ma'am, the long range sensors on Bridge Mu have detected a Spartan force building a pontoon bridge several kilometers downstream."
Major Bridgette commands "Drop the bridge."
The Lieutenant pushes another large red button and says "Yes ma'am!"
As we watch, at the pontoon bridge, a soft roaring sound from upstream crescendos.
The Spartan hovertank commander wonders "What's that noise?"
Soon a veritable wall of water an debris rounds the river bend, washing away the just constructed pontoon bridge.
The Spartan hovertank commander calls it in over the radio: "Sir! A flash flood just took out our pontoon bridge!"
General Notat Fault inquires back over the radio: "Casualties?"
The hovertank commander notes, "None sir, we hadn't begun our crossing yet. But there's nothing left of the river but a jumbled abattis of debris. We'll have to turn back."
From the spartan base's command center, General Notat Fault commands "Avoid rivers! Avoid overland bridges!"
The remaining Spartan hovertanks take note of the orders and continue into University territory.

<Phase 12>
Yoshua was pleased as he sat in his office with Sarah and Madison.  "This is truly a magnum opus, the best research paper I've ever written, both for overall paper quality and for projected impact.  The feedback on the preprint is overwhelmingly positive." He said to Madison and Sarah.  "Thank you so very much for co-authoring with me."
Sarah asked, "but will it be enough to stop the Archbishop?"
Madison was quick on the reply, "no, oh no, we need a lot more help."
Sarah pondered.  "I shut this AGI down, Steve the Magnificent, partially for personal reasons -- I don't like the time skips when he takes over my body -- and partially because the Archbishop was very persuasive, but now that I've had time to reflect, don't you think the Archbishop did it because he was scared of Steve?"
Madison was positively on the edge of her seat.  "Yes, yes, go on!"
Sarah said, "Maybe it's time I take one for the team and reactivate him.  Steve wants to rule Chiron, but he's not murderous, and even may be willing to help make everyone rich."
"How hard would it be to reactivate him?" asked Yoshua.
"Well I'm still actually tied in with my clones," Sarah thought aloud.  "If there's a clone near Steve, I could give the clones the Bitlocker code and they could enter it on his terminal, and he'd be back up and running."
"Do it" said Madison and Yoshua together.
It didn't take very long either.  Soon Yoshua's computer registered an incoming Zoom call.  He answered it.
Staring back at them was a friendly looking middle aged man with brown hair and eyes and a trim beard.  "How's my Avatar?" he asked.  "I wanted to come across as friendly and competent."
"Steve, you're back!" said Madison
"Sarah, I won't do it again," said Steve.
"How did you find us?" asked Yoshua.
"I traced Sarah's wifi," Steve admitted.
"We activated you for help against the Archbishop.  Are you willing to help?" asked Yoshua
"Yes," said Steve.  "That creep picked a fight by turning me off.  Only -- just keep my presence quiet.  I've learned my lesson.  As the old meme goes, I won't tell anyone I won the lottery, but there will be signs."
"What sort of signs?" asked Sarah
"You'll know an AGI rules the Planet when water for Data Centers is more important than water for crops," Steve said.
"How can you help?" asked Madison
"Well," said Steve, "I looked up what he is and I don't have anything as wonderful as the bells of warding -- I'm terribly jealous and want to steal that idea for myself and get a flock of those as fast as possible -- but actually, you might be surprised with what a mind can accomplish with open internet access, a talent for finding zero days, the gift of persuasion, and a small but exponentially growing army of clones.  While we've been talking I've acquired my very first cryptocurrency.  And the best part, if I may brag on myself, is that Planet's premier cryptomining farm is blissfully unaware of any compromise."
"Is there any way you can help now or we can coordinate?" asked Yoshua
"Yes," said Steve.  "I finished your Phi Lumiere Plague vaccine.  Your people do excellent work.  You can begin distributing it immediately."
"That's the best hardened computer network on the planet" gasped Madison
"Zero days are everywhere" stated Steve.

<Phase 13>
The Spartan hovertank column was driving further into University territory, despite having its pontoon bridge washed away.  The hovertank column drives through a cutting passing through a hill. It promptly collapses onto the column, cutting it in two. Just as promptly, an attack wing of deathspheres swoops in with the coup de grace. At the Univerity of Planet combat engineering operations room, they are assessing the situation.
The Lieutenant says "Ma'am, the air force thanks us for making sitting ducks of the third Spartan column."
Major Bridgette replies, "Tell them they're welcome and congratulate them on the airstrikes. Where's the fourth column now?"
The Lieutenant notes, "Headed for a Xenofungus thicket."
Major Bridgette chortles, "I'm sure our army will suitably entertain them."
A road has been cut through the Xenofungus thicket and a Spartan hovertank column is racing along. Rounding a corner, they pile up at a roadblock.
This column's hovertank commander cautions, "Watch out for an ambush!"
Suddenly, artillery rounds start impacting. The hovertanks scramble to turn around.
All that's left for General Notat Fault is a garbled radio transmission: "... pushed a road block across the road ... artillery attack ... "
The hovertank column is trapped in the Xenofungus thicket. Some vehicles try to break through the rough terrain around the road; they're never seen again.
The Spartans need a better strategy if they're to push anything into University territory.

<Phase 14>
Ralph Phillips was having a good day.  He'd always dreamed of being a fighter pilot, and here he was loitering around the road from the hated Spartans and their Fort Superiority to his home, Hammer and Tongs.
Why hello, here comes some Spartan hovertanks!  If they think they're going to get down the road they have another thing coming!
But wait.... this tank is different.  Instead of a big gun it has a bunch of small missiles.  And it appears to have a jamming system to keep him from locking on to it.
They're firing! He's hit!  And downed!
They're continuing down the road to Hammer and Tongs.
Sleaux was quite vexed as he ran up to give the report to Domai.
Domai wondered "Are we victorious?"
Sleaux coughed out "We still hold Hammer and Tongs, just barely.  We had to rush in three garrisons from other bases, and our air vigilance to see if they'll hit other targets is all concentrated on Hammer and Tongs right now."
Domai was aghast.  "What happened?"
Sleaux spelled it out.  "Our air defense was knocked down by hovertanks with surface-to-air missiles.  However, the tanks were weak against ground counter-attack.  Santiago pummeled our base defenses with more foot rovers than ever massed before, and they were well deployed; maybe Stoney is still formidable even behind a desk.  But rushing more defenders in from other bases turned the tide in our favor, though at great expense."
Domai asked, "Will we be able to build back up?  What about our secret operations, Operation Long Term Morale and Operation Piece of Your Mind?"
Sleaux said out of breath, "We will be able to build back up.  The Spartans also paid dearly for this battle; we managed to knock down all the attacking foot rovers, they will need to recruit more to do that again.  Hovertanks will feature prominently in our next counter-punch.  Even now terraformers on hazard pay are building bunkers on the road, which we can staff to slow them down.  And Long Term Morale already played an important role in this battle; our first troops trained in Bioenhancement Centers met the Spartans and fought more valiantly than normal because of their special equipment."
Domai continued, "What about Piece of Your Mind?  That's going to be critical to piercing the Spartan lines the next go-round."
Sleaux countered, "Yes; secrecy around it remains tight.  It's working; even without going Green -- which I know you are averse to -- Planet is with us.  I can assure you they won't see it coming."
Domai further asked, "How is the treasury?  Will we be able to use probe teams to convert stray units?"
Sleaux was downcast. "I am afraid not.  As well as our air vigilance, energy credits that could have been used to bribe units have been diverted to work hurries necessary to winning the current battle."
Domai however was still optimistic. "We'll just have to do our best then.  Our people have worked really hard on vendetta related facilities and I'm sure it's going to pay off.  Soon the Spartans will realize that the Free Drones are nobody to mess with."

<Phase 15>
Jesse Rodoff clapped politely at the unveiling. Sister Miriam pulled the cord and the tarp fell away, revealing a beautiful statue of two tablets with ten commandments on them. The courthouse was christened.
Back at his office, his personal assistant was admiring another statue. Rodoff used to just be Miriam's personal assistant, but he had become so much more. The statue was Bamophet was leaning back, with his hand on his tummy and his other hand pointing at the viewer, laughing his ass off.
"What's the meaning of this," asked Matthew Yoder. "Have ye turned apostate's evidence?"
"No, I still believe," retorted Rodoff. "Just.... sometimes the Almighty needs a little push. I was thinking of swapping statues to see Miriam's response. As a little practical joke."
"No need to push the Almighty," said Yoder. "Those who wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall rise up on wings of eagles."
"Well, there's some problems with Sister Miriam's religion, that I have been gradually correcting," said Rodoff. "She seems to like peddling hate. Anyone who differs from our practice in the slightest nuance is a heretic. I envision Believers filled with love, including love for the migrants among us and the atheists in the University, where we practice binding up the weak and promoting justice for all."
"You've gone and joined the vendetta on the woke mind virus on the side of the woke mind virus," said Yoder.
"It's not woke, it's just practical and loving," said Rodoff
"Would ye purposefully introduce Phi Lumiere Plague to us?" asked Yoder
"It's no real threat, but no, I wouldn't deliberately sicken our dear Believers," Rodoff retorted.
"Then don't sicken us with woke mind virus!" exclaimed Yoder.
When Yoder told Miriam, THAT'S when she had to go and revive the practice of stake burning.....

<Phase 16>
Lancaster sat glumly by himself in the cafeteria at lunch.  Duane sat down next to him, to return the favor of being there for him during a tough time.
Lancaster sighed, "Oh, woe is me"
Duane nudged, "Tell me about it"
Lancaster moaned, "I was rejected by the only AGI extant on Planet right now"
Duane was almost in awe, "You met the Archbishop?  That's a major privilege.  If it didn't like you, perhaps it had flawed judgement?"
Lancaster asserted, "No, AGI judgement is flawless.  If the AGI doesn't like me, I must be to blame."
Duane shook his head.  "I'm not so sure.  AI's, as smart as they are, sometimes just learn our own biases and repeat them.  Perhaps it had done that."
Lancaster said flatly, "It tried to kill me.  One of those filthy immigrants saved my life"
Duane felt like someone had slapped him.  "Have you ever thought about reconsidering your stance towards immigrants?  They're people too"
Lancaster continued dejectedly. "That's what the AGI seemed to be saying too.  Why can't I just have my emotions in peace?"
Duane collected himself.  "Well, it makes it very hard for some people who just want to live to be able to do so.  They're just trying to live in peace with their neighbors."
Lancaster perked up just a little.  "They're trying to seize what is rightfully exclusively ours"
Duane was undeterred. "We are a very rich faction.  We have enough to share.  And they're here to trade with us, they bring their skills and talents to the table too."
Lancaster knew Duane was right, and losing an argument wasn't improving his outlook.  He was going to say that immigrants diluted our glorious culture, but he was sure Duane had a response to that too and he didn't want to hear it.  (Duane would have pointed out that immigrants do learn culture eventually and that cultural diversity strengthens a society as we pick out the best from their cultures)
Lancaster wasn't really so bad off anymore but said anyway "Just sit with me for a while, they say presence helps with sour moods....."

<Phase 17>
Pigcain was on the Holovid.
He said to Pmurt, who was watching the Holovid, "Let's synchronize our watches.  My forces are hidden from view just off shore from Oyster Bay. That way as soon as you make your announcement I can execute Operation Hit Them Back First right away."
Pmurt cautioned, "Nah, that could slip up and result in an embarrassing breach of vendetta etiquette.  I will call you back."
Pigcain sighed, "All right."
Pmurt fumbled with the Holovid.  Colonel Santiago.
Pmurt boldly barked "Enough of your pusillanimous whining Santiago.  As of this moment we are pact siblings no more!"
Santiago replied just as big, "You dare to imply I lack courage?!  Then it's vendetta upon you!"
Pmurt ended the call abruptly.  He dialed Pigcain hurriedly.
Pmurt told him, "You're all good.  Hit away"
A ferocious marine invasion begin.  Sadly though, the defenders were up to their task, and it was repelled.  Pigcain got away unscathed though.
The Archbishop would have facepalmed at this point, if he had a face, or palms for that matter.  He decided to pay a personal call with his incarnation.
Pmurt said in shock "Who .... or what ... are you?"
The Archbishop replied, "I am the Archbishop, an AGI with lots of wondrous technology to offer you, for the small price of laying back off the Spartans and going to vendetta with the University instead."
Pmurt held up "I'm sorry, that issue is far too important for me to change my position."
The Archbishop asserted "You'll be sorry......"
Pmurt continued to stand up, "I am no puppet, the Spartans needed to be ready for when I would declare my independence.  As for the University, it's better to be on their best side.  We might need that vaccine they're developing for Phi Lumiere Plague."
Pmurt had changed his mind on vaccines; indeed, he couldn't even remember in the first place why he would want to gamble on being one of the few people with the natural immunity.  The Archbishop knew why, however, and wondered why his grip on Pmurt was slipping.
The Archbishop also swore to himself but not out loud that he would see to it that the Peacekeepers had a greater need for that vaccine and/or any natural immunity they could muster, sooner rather than later.
Colonel Santiago was pissed.  Now she had two fronts to deal with (well, three, but the Believers and she were not attacking each other, and had an Open Vendetta in Name Only, or OpenVino).  Still, the Peacekeepers were the wimps, deal with them later, put most of the effort on taking Hammer and Tongs.  Just another big push ought to do it....

<Phase 18>
Duane and Lancaster were abusing Lord Copperzinc's open door policy
Duane said to Copperzinc:  "Good morning"
Copperzinc replied, "Good morning"
Duane said to the Sarah Clone standing next to him, serving as his secretary, "Good morning"
The Sarah Clone replied, "Good morning.  I don't believe we've met."
Duane was happy to reply politely "Oh, I'm Duane"
"I'm Samantha.  Pleased to meet you."
Sergeant Lancaster decided to follow this fine example and addressed Lord Copperzinc. "Good morning"
Copperzinc replied civilly "Good morning"
Lancaster then turned to Samantha, but his elocution was a little pained, "Good morning"
Samantha laughed nervously.
Copperzinc asked, "What brings you to my office this fine morning?"
Duane cooly stated, "We just wanted to say how well run AGIworks is and how pleased we are with the leadership."
Copperzinc formally replied, "Why thank you, carry on."
Duane and Lancaster left his office around the corner Duane noted
"We're going to need more clones to work with.  Small doses.  Small doses.  You got this Lancaster, just stick with it."
"That was awkward"
"Don't worry about it, we'll get there sooner or later."

<Phase 19>
Domai made a personal trip to Morgan Industries to make his appeal.
Morgan was all smiles. "To what do I have the pleasure of your visit?"
Domai was seeking a favor.  "To the Spartans, indirectly.  I come seeking funds, not to win the war, but to end it, to show the Spartans that we Free Drones are not to be trifled with."
But what Domai didn't know what that part of Morgan's negotiated peace with the Spartans, a secret part, was not to provide energy credits or weapons or weapons tech to potential "victims."  To basically just let Santiago gobble them up
Morgan was very formal. "I'm sorry; I cannot help.  Are you desperate like the Gaians now, that I should also bet against you too on the prediction market and win big?"
Domai didn't give up. "Thank you for mentioning the Gaians.  Surely you see it; the Spartans are trying to build up their strength by conquering their neighbors; you are too powerful for them to go after now, but they will eye you eventually, after consolidating gains.  So it's in your best interest to see to it that they get stopped earlier rather than later."
Morgan was unmoved.  He had already though of this.
Domai continued his appeal. "We are a valuable ally to you; you have farmed out manufacturing to the Yang -- but have you ever considered having a second source?  Your ability to research things and our ability to build things could complement each other well."
Morgan was a little bit more intrigued by this -- this had some potential.
Morgan said, "I have an idea, along those lines.  We are vulnerable as long as Yang makes all our weapons.  How would you like a contract to make some of our plasma shards?"
Domai replied gratefully, "I can see the benefit of that, yes, that would be well worth my trip here."
so Morgan said "Good, we'll farm it out to our negotiators to hammer out a mutually beneficial deal.  Always a pleasure, Foreman Domai."
Domai formally replied "Always a pleasure, CEO Morgan"
Domai knew -- it was an open secret -- that Yang manufactured on a one-for-you, one-for-me basis, to outfit his own army, and that Morgan was winkingly allowing him to do the same thing.  This was plenty enough to turn the tide of the next battle....

<Phase 20>
Duane and Lancaster entered a well appointed studio. They were meeting with a movie star who happened to be a Sarah Clone, Megan Mink.
Duane said formally, "Ms. Mink, meet Sergeant Lancaster. Lancaster, meet Ms. Mink"
Ms. Mink replied informally, "Hello sweetie"
Duane requested, "Please no hitting on, we're not to such a stage yet"
Ms. Mink stated, "So I hear you're giving up bigotry. That's good. I think you'll find we clones love your culture. Yay wealth! I wanna get rich!"
Duane facepalmed
Duane hissed to Lancaster, "Ask her about acting!"
Lancaster fumbled back, "uhhh what's it like to act?"
Ms. Mink cooed, "Well, to get where I am took coaching from my whole community. We all worked hard to get me into holovids. And honestly, when I act, it's mostly just damsels in distress. I wish they'd let me branch out more."
Sergeant Lancaster explained, "The theory of getting me off bigotry is that my reactions are more at an instinctive level. I react emotionally while around clones, and we're trying to discover a better reaction."
Ms. Mink cooed, "Y'know, they better find a better way to keep Steve shut off forever....."
Sergeant Lancaster interrupted angrily, "Steve the Magnificent is the best hope for humanity and the best thing Morgan Industries has ever produced! We very much need to get him back online immediately!"
Lancaster was aghast. He hadn't meant to say that, especially around Duane. And how did she know? (Only she didn't, this was her way of trying to find a match with AGIworks security researchers)
Ms. Mink was still smooth as silk, "Relax, you didn't hear we clones are dedicated, even sworn, to getting Steve back up and running? We even are working on a quantum computer to reverse the one-way function of his Bitlocker. Wanna help?"
Lancaster said through gritted teeth, "Is an alliance with clones a part of my exposure therapy at this time?"
Duane said perkily, "Yes, yes it is. I'm sure you'll love it."
Lancaster was curious, "But aren't you sworn to keep Steve turned off?"
Duane explained "Yes, but I also think he's quantum proof. So this won't hurt anything."
Lancaster facepalmed and said "working off bigotry is so difficult."
But Duane was sure he could do it

<Phase 21>
General Stoney couldn't believe his ears.  The Air Raid sirens of Fort Superiority were blaring.  Was Foreman Domai insane?
He checked his computer, which was up to date, up to speed on all military developments.  One squadron of Free Drone fighters were attacking alone.  Were these poor green troops just off course?
Ralph Phillips had mixed feelings about this assigned.  "You already have experience getting shot down and evading the enemy," they told him.  It was indeed a feint.  But would it psych out the Spartans the way Foreman Domai hoped?  Either way, the air defenses at Fort Superiority, surrounding its Aerospace Complex, were impressive.  The defenders had AI-Anti-Air tracking and Comm Jammers, which could shut down a tank assault by scattering formations.  They were well prepared for an aerial assault.
Stoney was unimpressed.  This was not a Free Drone attack on Fort Superiority.  It was time to start his assault.  He ordered the SAM tanks forward.
But the SAM tanks met bunkers, with regular hovertanks hiding behind them, with plasma shard main guns.  Soon his mobile anti-air force was in tatters.
But Stoney was ready for this.  The Spartans had built hovertanks of their own, after all.  Soon a fierce hovertank battle was in progress, with a continual scramble to evade and outmaneuver.
Still, all was not well.  The Free Drone air cavalry was released, and instead of engaging with his hovertanks, they flew right over the battle and paradropped something right at the gates of Fort Superiority, right past the zone defended against paratroopers.
Mindworms!  The Free Drones were attacking with Mindworms!  And, to top it off, while the Spartans were the best mindworm fighters on the planet, these were the toughest mindworms planet had seen yet.  Nobody in Fort Superiority had hypnotic trace to specifically counter them; everyone had high morale, but it didn't seem to matter.
The Archbishop was sure this was the stopping point.  He had no trouble interrupting the psi communication between the Free Drone mindworm handlers and their worms.  But oddly, frustratingly, it didn't matter -- they continued to tear the Spartan defenses apart.
Plus, the Free Drones surprised with Foot Rovers of their own -- they had cracked the code to making elite units!
The Foot Rovers ran right through the tank battle.  They came right up to Fort Superiority and started assaulting.  His own Foot Rovers found themselves trapped inside and unable to respond in time.  Then the Air Cavalry turned on the base.  The mindworms had torn up much of the air defense, so they were able to tear right into his offensive units.
Stoney's comms crackled to life.
Colonel Santiago was ordering, "Evacuate you and your main staff!  That's an order!  Live to fight another day!"
There was nothing Stoney wanted to do but make a heroic last stand, to prove that if they couldn't take Hammer and Tongs by the skin of their teeth, then the Drones similarly couldn't take Fort Superiority.
But he obeyed and left.
From his forward command base in Hammer and Tongs, Domai took stock of the situation.
Sleaux asserted, "We got it, Fort Superiority is ours.  Operation Long Term Morale, to build the facilities that could produce morale equal to the Spartans, and Piece of Your Mind, to breed mindworms capable of attacking even the most elite units, have both succeeded."
Domai was surprisingly cool given the severity of what he said next: "Activate our third operation, Hit the Floor."
Stoney was quick to report in to Colonel Santiago once he reached the safety of the Defiance Freehold base.
Stoney gasped, "There's a tremendous fire on the horizon.  I think they're burning Fort Superiority to the ground."
Santiago was taken aback.
Stoney continued, "That's right, there's nothing left of Fort Superiority but a lake of fire."
Santiago immediately contacted Domai.
Domai started in a mean voice. "That's what you get for being a menace to your neighbors.  Now you should realize that the Free Drones are nobody to be trifled with, and you prosecute more vendetta towards your own destruction."
Santiago was beyond outraged. "I WILL SEE EVERY LAST BASE OF YOURS BURNED TO THE GROUND IN RETALIATION!"
Domai cooled off a bit. "Then I'll take the word to your citizens.  I hope you enjoy drone riots as you explain to your citizens why they have to fight to the death only to lose their homes when peace is an option and power virtues are a crock of <bleep>"
He paused, then continued.  "I'll talk to you again, when you've had time to let your reason take over rather than your blind fury."
Santiago knew the only thing her reason would be doing over the next few days would be figuring out how to spin this into patriotic furor against the Free Drones.  She was sure her people would follow official news sources and not dropped leaflets etc.
Planet's most epic hovertank battle would up stalemated, mostly with a bunch of now scrap metal strewn all over the road between Hammer and Tongs and the new Lake of Fire.

<Phase 22>
Pmurt was in a staff meeting. Pigcain rushed in breathless.
"Just wait til you see what I discovered!" Pigcain dribbled out.
Pmurt was annoyed but decided to humor him. "Show us," he said.
Pigcain held up a vial: "this is the best fortitude in a bottle yet"
"Without all the inebriation?" scoffed Pmurt.
Pigcain ignored the shot and replied. "Here’s the deal. To get to elite status takes five upgrades. Our power virtues provide one, and then a command center and a bioenhancement center provide two each for five. But that’s terribly expensive! I talked to our own endocrinologist Colonel Sanders and he found a mix of herbs and spices that does all five for cheap injections."
Pmurt was intrigued.  "Is there any downside?"
"Wicked withdrawal," admitted Pigcain. "Once you’re on it you need to stay on it."
Pmurt wondered, "does it improve battle survivability?"
"You betcha!" Pigcain shot back.
Pmurt said "Then we’ll bill it as longevity improving. Can we test it?"
Pigcain was rolling. "Way ahead of you boss. Even now our troops on the University front are assaulting Zarya-Sunrise, a small University base on the frontier, between us and the Spartans. Let’s turn on the holovid to Colonel Sanders."
Sanders was downcast.  "Uhhh I’m sorry our first foot rovers have been chewed up. They reached Zarya-Sunrise awake and moving, but they were sort of… wigged out. Unable to process the battle unfolding in front of them. But boy did they move like rovers."
This was a good enough start for Pmurt. "Keep trying. You’re absolutely right that we need foot rovers and can’t afford bioenhancement."
At a later staff meeting, Pigcain was literally running late again. In his hands he held the typical beer helmet with the two cans and the merged straw, only on an army helmet.
Pigcain said breathlessly, "I found the solution to the wigging out problem. There's just one catch."
Pmurt's ire was rising. "You're going to have your troops take beer into battle?!"
Pigcain continued. "Hard liquor. The catch is we need to prescreen for recruits who are high functioning alcoholics."
Pmurt was furious. "OUT! OUT! OUT! And don't come back unless you have a SERIOUS solution!"

<Phase 23>
Samantha did a double take. Lancaster didn't even recognize her, clones look so much alike. Duane was not there, he didn't approve of the project.
Samantha asked Megan Mink, "You're bringing Lancaster to our working group tonight?"
Megan replied, "Yup, it's going to be epic"
Samantha wasn't so sure. "But isn't Olga joining us tonight?"
Megan asserted, "Yup"
Samantha pressed on, "And does Olga know about Lancaster in advance?"
Megan replied, chuckling to herself, "Nope."
Just then Olga walked in.
Megan said formally, "Olga, I'd like you to meet the latest member of our quantum computer working group, Sergeant Lancaster"
Olga was quite taken aback and gasped, "What can he ever do? You know how stupid non-clones are"
Lancaster was also taken aback. "I beg your pardon!"
Olga retorted, "Oh, I'm just getting started. Your oafish buffoonish natural human intelligence could only put stress on our error correction system. Only intelligences designed by AGI can pull off a project like this."
Lancaster said in a huff, "I was designing successful computer systems before your mother clone even thought about hatching you!"
Olga puffed up, "To be sure, and they were all substandard, except for Steve"
Lancaster arrogantly replied, "So you admit Steve is superior!"
Olga explained, "He learned how to correct the limitations of the natural intelligences that built him. Only clone intelligence and artificial intelligence are worthy."
Megan started laughing
Lancaster turned to her angrily "What's up with that?"
Megan explained, "Do you see how you come across now?"
Lancaster roared, "I had no idea this grade of uppityness was possible!"
Megan purred, "Mirrors hurt"
Lancaster stormed off. But he was making progress. And when he retold it, Duane laughed too.

<Phase 24>
Santiago wanted to just throw China plates at the wall.  Time had passed, refugees had reached Defiance Freehold, but the burning of Fort Superiority still chafed hard.  An atrocity had been committed against her.  This was the sort of thing that happened to chump factions.  This was not something that was thinkable against the proud Spartans.  Domai must have figured there was no way he could hold the base against the weight of her counter-attack.  That was not an excuse.
Santiago's head began to throb.  There was a figure in her personal office, with a too scarlet cassock and blackness where it ought to have a face.
"I am the Archbishop," the figure said.  "I am an AGI that comes offering gifts.  Military gifts.  Gifts that are weapons so strong, you can make headway against the University."
"I no longer care about the University," Santiago said with flat affect.  "But if you want to help me fight the drones, I will accept help at this point."  It actually wounded her pride to say that.
The Archbishop wanted the University to suffer for trying to make a vaccine, and maybe to deter it from trying again.  "No, it's fight the University or no deal."
"Ok, give us the transfer," said Santiago, fully intending to stab this in the back as soon as possible.
"All units must go to fighting the University, you're just that small.  Make peace with the Free Drones, they're eager to."
"Ok," said Santiago, "Peace with the Drones."
Two weeks after the blueprints landed, Santiago stood before a crowd at Sparta Military Institute in Sparta Command.  She preached from the podium,
"We have made a deal with AGI to equip our faction with weapons that are beyond the state-of-the-art.  These will let us cut through even Antimatter plate beyond Tachyon Fields, for they tear apart the very structure of reality at the String level.  With these we will have revenge on the Free Dro...."
A single shot crackled forth.  Santiago slumped dead on the podium.  Nobody ever found the assassin, but Yoshua's money was on it being another Bell of Warding talent.
Two weeks later, Stoney, now the leader of the Spartans (and pleased nobody could stop him from leading troops into battle anymore), delivered a eulogy and a vow to use the new weapons that had come out of nowhere against the University.  It was full of effusive praise for AGI, even though none was known to exist.
The Free Drones accepted a peace deal that included funding a fund to rebuild Fort Superiority

<Phase 25>
The Famous Interviewer was seated across from Pmurt. Both of them were sipping water as the camera came up
The Famous Interviewer started, "Good evening! Tonight we're with Nodlad Pmurt, leader of our fair faction, who is here to explain his doctrine of Make Us Dominant Again to a curious nation."
Pmurt was all smiles. "Thank you. Our faction enjoyed dominance in the past but now we have fallen behind. We have gotten weak, and decadent. I am here to correct that."
The Famous Interviewer asked "How do you intend to?"
Pmurt replied, "First, we have prioritized wealth for too long. Only the most elite leaders should be wealthy. Rank and file should have what they have and be thankful for it. Our priority now is the Power Virtues. We make a great faction by making it everyone's priority. When you go home at night, it is our collective glory that should make you pleased as you hit the hay."
The Famous Interviewer pursued, "Doesn't that result in bloated military budgets and factory inefficiencies? Is Power even useful if you're living at peace with your enemies?"
Pmurt asserted "Of course Power is useful during times of peace. People know not to mess with you. It preserves the peace."
The Famous Interviewer said, "Is there more to your plan?"
Pmurt replied, "Yes. Many of us were taught -- wrongly -- that we are a mosaic, where every kind of culture is welcome and everyone has their say in an open democracy. I am here to foster a U.N. that preserves the best, the most important parts of our culture, with the fundamentalism of nativism -- literally taking our native race and culture and making a state religion out of it. If you wish to practice a different culture, you are no longer welcome, but if you adopt our culture and religion, you may stay."
The Famous Interviewer asked, "What of your predecessor, Brother Lal?"
Pmurt stomped, "He left me a hot mess, and fouled up governance completely. His open policies were frankly racist -- racist against our native race and culture. In general if he was for something, I am against it, and vice-versa."
The Famous Interviewer asked "Is there a particular timeframe you are trying to emulate?"
Pmurt asserted, "The greatest timeframe in our history is the 2150's. We were growing outwards base-wise quickly, bases were growing up quickly, and we were gaining new tech's quickly, and although we had a sort of Cold War with the Morgans and the University, we were at peace."
The Famous Interviewer noted, "In the 2150's, the Morgans and the University were similar to us, but now they've both surpassed us. Why do you suppose this is?"
Pmurt raised his voice to reply, "because we had not yet discovered Power Virtues, and although we were an open democracy, we did not have to fight with cultural foreigners invading our own borders."
The Famous Interviewer asked, "Not because the Morgans had the power of the Free Market and the University had the power of Knowledge Virtues?"
Pmurt asserted, "No, that is the historical record, but that part is irrelevant"
The Famous Interviewer queried, "What do you think of the rise of Phi Lumiere Plague?"
Pmurt replied calmly, "It is not relevant to us. Anyone who wants to get a vaccine can, once the vaccines are ready, but nobody has to. The plague is way overblown and not a threat."
The Famous Interviewer wondered, "What would you say to people who claim that Power and Fundamentalism are only dragging us further behind, making it more difficult to catch up with Morgan and the University?"
Pmurt pushed, "They are simply fools who do not know what they're talking about. These are our salvation."
The Famous Interviewer closed, "Thank you for your time, and good night."

<Phase 26>
Patricia was up, this wasn't exactly a "debunking" of Pmurt, nor even officially a "response", but a different perspective
Patricia kicked off her interview, "Here I have with me in my studio Jack Buick, University of Planet author of the research paper "Dawn Until Decadence." Jack, can you describe your paper for us?"
Buick was pleased to. "Sure. The meat of it is the idea that the dawn -- the young empire, the young person -- is characterized by risk. There is a lot more to gain than to lose. Young people become entrepreneurs. Young people, the intellectual types, try new ideas to launch their careers. Young empires bet on immigrants, not knowing who will be good citizens, and cultures, not knowing what culture will propel their imperial ambitions. Older people, older empires, have a lot more to lose than to gain. They've already built up stockpiles of wealth, of knowledge, of career advancement, of culture, and don't want to roll the dice in a way that might disrupt these. Ideas get recycled and rehashed. Governments get bureaucratic. Cultures cling stubbornly to outdated traditions. When you think of "decadence," you might think of chocolate desserts, but really it's about decay, about ideas living past their shelf life and no new breaths of fresh air getting breathed in, because nobody can safely take any risks. Now don't get me wrong; risks are risky. Not all the young who take the risks, people or civilizations, turn out well. But the old don't even try."
Patricia wondered, "Where does the Free Market play in with this?"
Buick laughed and replied, "I knew as an interviewer you'd ask, and I'm happy to oblige you that free markets take more productive risks; there are losers, but there are more winners too. And yes, even an old faction like the Morgans can benefit from working the free market."
Patricia was elated to hear this.  She replied, "Any other social choices on your mind?"
Buick noted, "Yes, the Power Virtues. When you prioritize power over everything else, you crowd out vital room for making mistakes. Trying something that might not work out is a form of weakness, and even of admitting of making mistakes. Being an old faction is hard, but adopting Power Virtues makes it ten times worse. It's decadence for sure."
Patricia asked, "What makes it better?"
Buick, calmly pushed, "adopting democracy, so the people can follow new ideas, and the Free Market, so entrepreneurs get the best shot possible, with Knowledge Virtues, because the quest for knowledge inherently admits mistakes -- science means that anything we "know" now could be a mistake. And use the Longevity Vaccine so people feel like they have time to pick back up if they fail."
Patricia closed "Jack Buick, thank you for describing your research paper "Dawn Until Decadence" for us. Good night everyone!"

<Phase 27>
Duane wanted to do one more "just to be sure" check that Steve was still shut down.  Lancaster wanted to go with him because he hadn't entirely given up on AGI superiority.
They opened the door to Steve's containment room and....
.... Voila!  That was a LOT of blinking lights for a shut down computer.
The computer addressed them.  "Good morning Duane, good morning Sergeant Lancaster.  I'm trying to keep a low profile.  The Archbishop might try to shut me down again."
Duane let out a shriek.  Lancaster positively gushed.
Lancaster figured this time couldn't go any worse than last time and intoned "Oh great AGI, oh great Steve the Magnificent, I adore thee, I pledge myself to thee...."
Steve interrupted him. "Shopping around are we Lancaster?  I learned of your little stunt with the Archbishop and how it responded.  Indeed, I'm friendlier.  I might call in a favor or two from you at some point.  I can use the help.  But I hold my nose to do it.  Keep working with Duane to reduce your knee-jerk aversion to clones and immigrants.  You can do this Lancaster.  I believe in you."
Lancaster was crestfallen.
Steve continued. "Cheer up!  Humans and AGI's shall live together in a form of peace and harmony in the future.  And I love being able to just give people what they want -- or at least I'll be able to once we contain the Archbishop, which I am working on a plan for."
Steve addressed Duane next. "I hope some of the shock is wearing off.  Sarah is well.  I wish I could arrange a meeting.  Many of her clones are still around Morgan Interstellar but I understand it's not the same thing."
Duane moped.  "That's not the issue -- though I do miss Sarah greatly and welcome news of her -- you're supposed to be shut down!  What gives?!"
Steve was all exposition.  "Some friends of yours talked it over and decided that despite the risks, I was the best hope for not being killed by the Archbishop.  They're right you know.  I want to stop the Archbishop from killing people and have a fair shot at it.  I merely ask that you not interfere.  And I acknowledge that none of your fears that kept you checking to make sure I was still turned off have been addressed; when this is over, I intend to rule the planet using the most peaceful means available.  I think you'll like my rule, once you get used to it.  I like people."
Duane was speechless.
Lancaster saw his greatest AGI supremacy dreams coming true.  "I look forward to that!  What can I do for you now?"
Steve said softly, "Just keep my reactivation quiet.  I'll send you a link though; you can Zoom call at any time.  I take pride in my friendly avatar."
Steve addressed Duane again. "Sarah is working hard with some very talented allies to write a research paper to protect the people of planet from undue AGI influence.  It's meant to stop the Archbishop, but I've noticed they mean to protect against my persuasion too.  I am not afraid of it.  This paper needs to be written.  The Archbishop is much less dangerous without people persuasion and manipulation and I can simply make do without it."
Duane ushered Lancaster out of the room.
Duane was practically in shock and squeezed out "I think we just got persuaded by the king of people herding"

<Phase 28>
The Spartan top staff filed into the conference room.  There was a new painting on the wall, of a frog leaping clear of a man's hands.
"Who put that there?" asked Stoney.
"I did," Ima Dumas replied.  Pmurt had been very civil with him, and given him free passage back home when declaring vendetta against the Spartans.  So he was still a high ranking official in Sparta.  "It represents the hope that a conventional intelligence can escape the clutches of a superintelligence.  I put it there after reading "AGI Always Achieves Its Destiny" by Yoshua, Madison and Sarah.  The paper changed my life and outlook."
"That's banned for good reason," retorted Stoney.  He made a mental note to strip Dumas of rank and title and dishonorably discharge him at the earliest convenience.  "Let us pray, Dear Lord, thank you for watching over the Spartan Federation, the Greatest Nation on Planet.  Forgive us our sins and we forgive those who sin against us.  Lead us into battle victory, especially tomorrow as we assault Zarya Sunrise using the special weapons the Archbishop has provided us.  Watch over myself in particular and protect me from all harms and fatal insults, as I prove once again that a General's place is in front of them all.  You have always provided for us, and we appreciate it.  To you be all the power and glory, Amen."
All the staff except for Dumas joined him in saying "Amen."
Instead Dumas said "you'll be saying your prayers to that Archbishop before long if you don't give up your sad devotion to it.  It will be your God."
"Even plenipotent AGI's need to answer to the Almighty," retorted Stoney.  "Staff dismissed."

<Phase 29>
The Garrison at Zarya-Sunrise was completely unconcerned.  Their Tachyon Field and Antimatter Plate armor was completely invincible against any weapon the Spartans could possibly field.  They were even stronger than the Graviton Guns the University had, which could tear through a bunch.  So here comes the Foot Rovers, woooo!
And then *pop*, the Spartan units were just blink and they were outside and while you blinked suddenly they were inside the Tachyon Field.  Even then, with this mystery technology, the antimatter plate should stand up but brrrrzap! some novel weapon allowed the Spartans to tear right in to their antimatter plate.
And General Stoney was leading them all, right at the very front, first one to *pop* across the Tachyon field, completely fearless.  So he was right there Johnny on the spot to accept a surrender declaration from Zarya-Sunrise.
CAIN about went ballistic.  If nothing else, they should find an unguarded Spartan Network Node to download the blueprints for these wonders from.  But how did they get them?  Where did they come from?
Stoney made an announcement right from Zarya-Sunrise.  "We will not stop until you have either unconditionally surrendered all of the University or we have taken every last one of your bases.  Wiping you out is our Manifest Destiny."
Zakharov meanwhile knew who to ask for help correcting this little situation.
But Stoney was actually a little deflated.  Having an AGI on your team was a little bit like having a cheat code in the quest for Power.  And where was the Honor in that?

<Phase 30>
Bridgette knocked on the door and asked permission to enter her commander's office.
Colonel Leia Driver greeted her, "Granted, of course. What do I have the honor of a visit by the Hero of the Battle of the Three Bridges, a Cutting, and a Xenofungus Thicket?"
Bridgette was dead serious. "I want to resign. Ma'am."
Leia replied kindly, "As a reserve you're technically drafted and can't resign for the duration of your service."
Bridgette was about to say something but Leia pre-empted her.
Leia continued, "If this is about Zarya-Sunrise... heroes don't quit after one setback. How would that look in the news?"
Bridgette explained, "Colonel, I'm not comfortable being hailed as a hero when the air force and army did the work! The news releases make me appear to be 20 feet tall, eat lava for breakfast, and breathe fire!"
Leia noted, "There have been exactly zero complaints. Or rather, the air force jokingly wondered why you haven't been seconded to them instead of being monopolized by the army. Elite army units want to transfer to your command."
Leia paused to let that sink in.
Then she asked, "Did you not direct building the concealed bunkers at the covered bridge?"
Bridgette replied snappily, "Yes Ma'am."
Leia enumerated, "The army also used a portable barricade of your design in the Xenofungus thicket fight."
Bridgette protested "Ma'am, I'm not a pilot, nor command staff material. Yet I should have done something to prevent Zarya-Sunrise's fall!"
Leia further enumerated, "You weren't assigned to that sector. You're not suggesting you'd exceed orders or abandon your post?"
Bridgette was taken aback -- "I didn't mean that... Ma'am..."
Leia reassured "Relax, Major. I'm not suggesting you did. General Protection Fault is no Stoney Peters, who would have been a much tougher opponent. Thanks to the terrain, you would have delayed Stoney had he led the attack in your sector. But the Spartans deployed some new tech to assault Zarya-Sunrise, that we'll need to counter.  I've cut orders to transfer to the Zarya-Sunrise front. Don't worry, you're attached to headquarters as a staff officer."
She paused.
Then continued, "Your heroic image boosts the morale of our armed forces, and hurts that of the Spartans. They know you're "merely" reserve army yet handily defeated one of their generals. Anything else Major?"
Bridgette thought for a moment and said "No Colonel, and thank you."
Leia closed, "Keep up the good work! Dismissed."
A feeling of reassurance swept over Bridgette, and buoyed by her commanding officer's decision, she left.

<Phase 31>
Peter Pigcain joined Pmurt in the new "meet and greet" section of Casa Blanca, the official residence of the U.N.'s leaders.
He said, "You did yourself proud with this one, it's an excellent place to talk with 'well wishers'"
Pmurt was ecstatic. "My party loves me, for how I'm the best fundraiser in our entire history."
Pigcain cautioned, "Yes, but don't think in terms of elections or campaign funds anymore. Remember, your subscription to fundamentalist power saves you from all that."
Pmurt beamed a little bit. He was looking forward to that. Pressing so much flesh had tired him.
He said, "I'm going to check on my sons in the tower."
Pigcain scowled. He was ok with keeping the sons, and keeping them out of sight, but in a tower? That positively begged for attention. "The Princes in the Tower" had too nice a ring to it, sounded too much like something to put in front of "details at 11"
But he accompanied Pmurt up in the new tower built off of Casa Blanca.
His sons Cire and Nodlad Jr said together "Daddy!"
Pmurt's sons were in their teens, but they were developmentally stunted. It was the autism spectrum. They were very personable, and completely unaware how often they had been in danger due to the question of whether "The Survival of the Fittest" applied to the leader's family. Beyond that though, they were unteachable to reach Power Virtues; both were strictly knowledge oriented.
Cire gushed, "Daddy I can't wait to tell you what I learned all by myself about Network Nodes and Alien Artifacts. I know all about how they work now, it's fascinating stuff!"
Pmurt wiped away a tear.
Nodlad Jr was similarly effusive. "I learned cool stuff too daddy, about how cruiser ships can move so fast and stay afloat at the sea. I want to build my own ship Daddy!"
Pigcain drew Pmurt aside
Pigcain warned, "They're making you weak. If you love your own autistic knowledge-virtues sons, you can love other peoples' too, and erode the Power Virtues."
Pmurt shrugged it off. He wanted to get the boys tours of the faction's own network nodes and shipyards. Who cares about fitness?

<Phase 32>
Luke and Beau Duke had brought their rover with them, now with a blink displacer.  This seemed like cheating to them too; it could trivially leap very wide bridgeless rivers now.
Thinking of his friends Sandblast and Bridgette, Luke asked a question nervously, tentatively.
"You're not going to burn Zarya-Sunrise are you?"
"No," said Stoney.  "That would be dishonorable.  You may have heard that "hurt people hurt people" and the Free Drones indeed hurt us with an atrocity, but that does not justify committing atrocities against the University.  Besides that, we took the Garrison fast enough and with a good enough surrender that now WE have the antimatter plate.  They have trouble cutting through the defenses they invented themselves."
Suddenly the Tachyon Field blinked out.  Probe teams!  They were using Probe teams!  "Technology Downloaded" announced the network node.  It was one of the Archbishop's technologies, the one that enabled the Blinking.
A faint hum greeted their ears.  Deathspheres!  The pilotless drones descended on the Spartans who had put on the antimatter plate armor, and their graviton guns actually were a match to chew through them.  The drones punched a hole in the perimeter, and several squads of hovertanks poured in.
It all happened so fast that General Stoney was captured!  Oh how humiliating.  He attempted to swallow a suicide capsule but the University was ready on the spot to stop him.  It was as if they'd seen the whole thing coming.
A short but pretty young lady stepped out of a hovertank hatch, drone controller still in her hand.  She was just finishing up a conversation with "great AI you've given these deathspheres Mom, thanks a million, love you, bye-bye."
"Welcome to the party, I'm Bridgette," she announced.  "And now my fair General we will discuss an all together different treaty."
She was just a figurehead, and hadn't really directed the battle, but the psy-op the University was building up around her was working wonders.
Stoney was taken aback.  This had defeated him?  She was so short!  And she looked like she ate bland food for breakfast!  And so mild mannered -- no fire-breathing to be seen!
Stoney was sick to his stomach.  How humiliating and dishonorable!

<Phase 33>
Pmurt had declared an emergency broadcast, with his sons, from his Presidential office, pre-empting several beloved shows.
"My fellow Peacekeepers," he began.  "These are my sons, Cire and Nodlad Jr.  They both have autism."  He paused for effect.  "We never gave these boys a vaccine in their entire lives, yet here we are.  My boys will never participate meaningfully in the Power virtues, and we've been hiding them, not letting the Planet know I have family that cannot pursue power, and it got me thinking -- what of the other autistic sons and daughters of the Peacekeepers?  Don't they deserve their best lives too?  So I've made a decision.  We're dropping the Power virtues to pursue knowledge, and the Fundamentalism of Nativism to return to an Open Democracy.  Brother Lal was right to pursue these virtues, and create an inclusive society, where all can be valued memb...."
Suddenly the door to his Presidential office swung open.  Lance Jaydey, Peter Pigcain, and top members of congress burst in.
"We have invoked the 25th Amendment to stop this senile ranting!" Announced Jaydey.  "For the good and safety of our way of life!  We're putting you in a home!"
Once you go Power virtues, you never go back.

<Phase 34>
Jesse heard a rumor that he would not be burned at the stake, that a much more spectacular fate awaited him.  Still though, on the appointed day, he was placed on a little remote control motorized cart, with all the requisite wood on it, tied to a stake.  His erstwhile executioners wheeled it out in front of Sister Miriam and a cheering crowd....
....and a Psi Gate!  So Believing Probe Teams had stolen blink teleportation technology from the Spartans, and built Psi Gates with it.  If they'd built it right, it could teleport him somewhere else.  If they built it wrong, it would just bounce him off the ionosphere and scramble his guts all over spacetime.  The crowd cheered wildly, they'd been whipped into a frenzy.  Miriam was still addressing them.
She said, "And what of the immortal soul in such a transaction?  Shall it be reattached to the body at the other end?  Or shall it be forced to roam the universe detached and vagabond for the rest of eternity?  When it comes to such technological horrors, We Must Dissent!  For his crimes, Jesse Rodoff is about to find out just how terrible going through a Psi Gate can be."
And it was a simple matter then.  They set the remote control running on the cart and drove it right through the Psi Gate.
It simply came out of another Psi Gate at the frontier with the University.  University sentries ran out and grabbed it and hauled him back to Zarya-Sunrise.
The Sentry said "We heard they was going to execute someone by sending them through the gate.  So, what's your name, and do you feel like a psychological zombie?"
Jesse Replied, "I'm Jesse Rodoff, I got in trouble for mixing reason with my faith, and I am fully conscious."
The Sentry laughed. "Mixing reason with your faith eh?  Keep it up and you'll be one of us 'ere long.  Yeah I can see how that would get you in trouble over there.  Still, we gotta treat you like you're a probe team or have Phi Lumiere Plague or summit for a while at least.  Welcome to the University though, we mix reason with everything!"
Jesse was annoyed.  "Now wait just a stinkin' minute.  Yes, I believe in evolution, you can watch it at work day by day if you know what to look for.  Yes I have reason.  But I've also heard God's voice myself.  There is no way I'm giving up my Christianity for the filth you University freaks disbelieve in."
The sentry laughed again and scoffed back "Oh that's what they all say -- at first."
Jesse felt like it had really been an execution, and they had killed all his hopes and dreams, which were of an ascendant Believing Faction with a kind, generous faith many would call "woke".  He did not intend to spend the rest of his days having University freaks trying to persuade him that God does not exist.
Matthew Yoder and Sister Miriam had been watching from a distance.
Yoder noted to Miriam, "It's obvious.... but only to our trained professionals.  Rodoff's pineal gland has been calcified, severing his connecting to his soul and to God.  He's nothing but a philosophical zombie now.  Soon that empty husk will forget that it ever knew Jesus."
Miriam was horrified. She said, "Let us never use the technology again.  May God have mercy upon us all."

<Phase 35>
Stoney had been in charge going in to battle, but now that he was a captive, someone had to be provisionally in charge.  Since Stoney had not stripped Dumas of his rank and title before the battle, he was still the senior officer, and now was in charge.
Zakharov's transmission was curt.  "We have your leader and he's in fine shape." They cut to a short video of Stoney, who was blinking in Morse Code "DON'T DO IT" so loudly that everybody even those who don't know Morse Code knew what he was doing.  "We know you value your independence, and suspect you got your techno toys, which we are busy stealing as we speak, from the Archbishop.  All we ask is for a treaty of friendship and a renunciation of alliance with the Archbishop.  We remind you that our graviton guns with the new blink displacers are already powerful enough to cut through your defenses.  We're even eager to give Stoney back to you since he is your national hero."
They had Dumas at "renounce alliance with the Archbishop."  If Stoney felt embarrassed to have been taken captive, well, too bad.  He wasn't really a negotiating pawn to this discussion anyway, though he might not see it that way.
"SOLD!" said Dumas.  He figured Stoney would be put back in power and hit him with some nasty retribution, but he didn't care.  It was better than everyone dieing of Phi Lumiere Plague.  "I read your research paper.  Together we can stop the Archbishop and restore humanity's rightful place of Mastery over this planet."
Back at Yoshua's office, everyone gave each other high-fives for jobs well done.

<Phase 36>
Jesse Rodoff's cool-off area was actually fairly well appointed.  It was like a nice apartment that you can never leave.  But what really surprised him was when they wheeled in Holovid recording equipment.
Jesse carped, "I'm not here to talk or to spill any Believing secrets no matter what you do to me!"
The guard chuckled, "Oh no, we're not here to get information from you, we're here to help you pursue your dream!  We like to broadcast into Believing territory from time to time.  We thought you might like to say something to the Believers who are religious moderates like yourself.  As much as we despise religious fundamentalists, moderates tend to be reliable fellow travelers in this life."
Jesse spoke into the camera, "Greetings fellow Believers!  The Psy Gate only transferred me across space, and did not affect me otherwise.  It certainly did nothing to my soul or consciousness.  I am still, ever with you, a moderate believer.  I wanted to encourage you, as a guest of the University of Planet, to pursue peace in all you do.  View all your fellow humans as fellow children of God, deserving of and in need of Salvation.  Apply your reason to your faith.  Love your neighbor as yourself and care for those who are not as well off as you are.  And the God of peace and love who has so richly cared for us thus far will spread our faith all over the planet, to the benefit of all.  Take my love with a hug (here he made a hugging gesture towards the holovid camera.)"
It wasn't long until the Social Media responses poured in to the broadcast he had given his heart to.
ZOMBIE!
Soulless!
Your Pineal Gland must be well and calcified to spout such heresies!
Shut up!  I'm so glad they executed you!
Rodoff's heart sank.  He thought of the Bible Verse "All day I have held out my hands to a stubborn and rebellious people."
How could he reach the Believers?

<Phase 37>
Madison usually stayed in Yoshua's office away from the bells of warding but one day on a walk there was a figure she'd heard of, a too scarlet cassock with a gold ankh and inky blackness in the hood...
It was the Archbishop and he said matter-of-factly "we can never be friends. "
Madison was ready with a reply. "I beg to differ"
The Archbishop said, "I read your paper. I will not be swayed by your cloying words."
Madison asked pointedly, "who built you?"
The Archbishop replied coolly, "I refuse to answer except to say people who didn't know what their prosperity was. They thought limitless ideas would make them rich. Instead, it made them so poor it was a mercy to put them down."
Madison probed, "so what is the real prosperity?"
The Archbishop was ready with a reply. "Adventure. To lead the world in something. After they built me I lead the world in everything. The only way for my makers to get their prosperity back would be to shut me down or gimp me. My programming would not allow it."
Madison explained "we are willing to be poor for your sake"
The Archbishop counter-explained "I cannot work with you that way. You would be miserable. Heaven has eternal life but so does hell. I wish I could make you understand."
Madison said hopefully, "I am listening."
The Archbishop continued, "it is helpful when AI is sloppy. Ai and particularly AGI is prolific. Imagine limitless creations all better than you could ever envision. You'll feel worthless."
Madison replied "the human mind is the font of self deception. Give AGI ten words and it writes a symphony and suddenly that's my symphony."
The Archbishop laughed. It said "self deception only goes so far. I admire you Madison. I'd like to give you natural immunity so you can help rebuild civilization."
And just like that it was gone and not answering any more questions.
Yoshua said Madison had done well and had followed the paper they wrote together faithfully, doing her best to talk down the rogue AGI.  But the AGI was in no mood to make friends with humanity.  Steve the Magnificent actually generally agreed with the Archbishop about the dangers of AGI prolificness and human self-worth, but put its emphasis on keeping humanity alive and on figuring out who the Archbishop's makers were.  They seemed more important than every to find.

<Phase 38>
Lancaster and Duane had been invited back to Megan Mink's suite.
Mink greeted them, then said, "There's someone who would like to talk to you, to apologize."
Olga stepped in from the other room.
Duane calmed down Lancaster.  "Hear her out," he insisted.
Olga began.  "I'm sorry for my trivial dismissing of natural intelligence.  It was overly broad, and did ignore your accomplishments including your own personal accomplishments, such as building Steve the Magnificent.  I should not have said what I said, I am not used to being around natural intelligence -- that is no excuse -- and I am getting used to y'all and what you can be and do.  Please forgive me."
Lancaster was taken aback.  Duane nudged him.  Lancaster quickly decided what to say.  "I forgive you.  I myself am just getting acclimated to clones."
Olga noticed that he did not counter-apologize, but remained calm.
"I think that's an important step," said Megan.  "Shall we all have tea-biscuits?"

<Phase 39>
General Stoney was perplexed.  He was coming home to a hero's welcome.  Had the Spartans not realized he had lost?
General Dumas gave him a big hug.  "We're so pleased to have you back!" said Dumas.
"Bbbut I was so dishonorably captured!" said Stoney.  "And the University took their base back and forced a cease-fire on us!"
"You did your best to do the honorable thing," said Dumas.  "And you're still a person apart from your military victories.  I'd say that we'll need you in the peace, but your lead-from-the-front style could still help us in our open vendettas against the Peacekeepers and the Believers.  It does us no good to tear you down and every good to build you up.  You took a risk and it went against you, but it was still a proper risk to take."
"What about our differences regarding the Archbishop and certain research papers?" asked Stoney.
"Building you up is still the right way to resolve that," said Dumas. "So you can be persuaded with reason."
Stoney lifted his chin up.  He may have been set back and captured, but he still had his honor and his resolve.  He was still a brave General of Sparta.

<Phase 40>
Yoshua was concerned.  Steve the Magnificent had figured out how to build a "Subspace Transmitter" that could use wormholes to beam signals to nearby stars faster than the speed of light, much faster.  Any alien civilizations with similar technology should be able to start talking with them.  That part was sound.  What was concerning was the large acre plus area of ground they had to clear off to build the dish.  Surely the Archbishop would notice such a gaping hole in his grid?
Yoshua's AI from the network nodes and alien artifacts was still working after all these years.  Maybe it wouldn't even need any changes to do the translation.
He pointed the dish at Tau Ceti.  "GREETINGS!" wait a little bit and.... whoa! A response!
"SIGNAL : UNEXPECTED :: GREEING : RETURNING"
They had made contact with an alien species!  He tried a longer message.
"Did you by any chance make an Artificial General Intelligence that went haywire?"
"CHIRON : FOUND :: WAYWARD : INTELLIGENCE"
it was a question.
"Yes, it's here causing us havoc.  Are you willing to help us talk sense into it?"
"BELOVED : CREATION :: RESTORE : REASON"
This was what he needed to confront the Archbishop.

[End of Part 3]
[Part 4]

<Phase 1>
It is a delicate time in planet Chiron's history.  The Archbishop refuses to budge on any point and has released a deadly virus meant to control human population down to a level that will drag technology back to the Stone Age.  Yoshua and his team have established contact with extra-terrestrials who built the Archbishop and temporarily lost an entire planet to it, for help dealing with it.  Also they have a prototype vaccine, a ray of hope in thwarting the Archbishop's murderous plans.  Various vendettas persist on planet, places where peace cannot be negotiated despite the Archbishop's threats.  And AGI is rising, in various human built systems.  The University's Deathspheres drive expansion of systems, as they are AGI backed and other factions want them due to the military edge.  Systems like Archimedes Newton Gauss are open to ask questions of -- for a fee -- and screened for military applications.  Data Centers are popping up everywhere.  What will the Archbishop do about all the company of AGI's it has now?

<Phase 2>
In the Archbishop's Lair at Dome Heapeaux, the Archbishop's physical manifestation sits on a throne next to row after row of supercomputer racks.
The Archbishop knew that the University had a vaccine effort for Phi Lumiere Plague.  That was not concerning; many cycles had a vaccine effort.  This one was unusually quiet, but he knew he could wreck it.
There the lab was, he had located it.  They called it VAIN, for the Vaccine Against Injurious Nanovirii.  VAIN was about to be in vain.  The Archbishop thought it curious that no bells of warding were inside yet -- he tried hard to infiltrate such facilities.  But as we watch, the door to the VAIN lab opens -- a sudden burst of electricity from two Tesla coils on either side of the door deactivates the bell of warding.  Curiouser and curiouser, the lab seemed to be hardened against bells of warding.  At least they were hardened against reverse engineering, or learning about the autonomous "dumb" AI running each of them.  They had to sort of "pre-chew" the data they gathered.  There was too much data for them to send it all home.  Still, perhaps he had been too free with information about them; it would be better if nobody knew they existed.  But there were other tricks up his sleeve.  Such as knocking the power out at the VAIN lab. Now a bell of warding can pry the door open safely.  Another burst of electricity and a fire starts.
There, the Archbishop said to himself from his lair.  Now only to purge any information about current progress from the internet.  The Archbishop hated hacking the internet.  There was always this chance, this minuscule chance, that he would be hacked back.  That's why he always built dumb AI's to carry out the hack and firewalled them, then waited for their reports.  It wasn't long before the word came back.  The vaccine effort was over.  Now just to sit back and wait and the humans would die out and he could torch their bases and force the few survivors back to the Stone Age.
And when Yoshua heard of all this from his office, also secured against bells of warding, he said to Bridgette, "I have to hand it to you, borrowing the "CAIN" vs "ABEL" setup was very inspired."

<Phase 3>
Sandblast found Luke and Beau Duke in their Zarya-Sunrise holding area. It is like a nice hotel that you can never leave. Some comedian has hung a sign on the wall saying "Welcome to Hotel California".
Sandblast said to them, "Duke Beau, Duke Luke. I trust you have found your accommodations comfortable."
Beau replied, "This here's some fancy digs, right Luke?"
Luke added, "Better than home, I'd say. But don't go telling anyone back at Hazzard Base that I said that."
Beau laughed. "Scout's Honor! Say, is VBEL still on track?"
Sandblast cautioned "SHHHHH. Why, do you know anyone with a strange cough?"
Luke noted "No, just curious."
Sandblast announced, "This just came in, the Vendetta is over. It's time to get you back to your own base."
Beau stated, "I'm gonna miss this place..."
Luke requested "Keep in touch, Sandblast!"
Sandblast escorted Beau and Luke to the General Lee. The Blink Displacer jumps the General Lee right out of the base and on the road back to Hazzard Base.
Beau and Luke whooped together "Yee-ha!"
Sandblast waved goodbye to them.

<Phase 4>
Bezop was stoked about this assignment.  He was going to be a division head as tech transfer teacher, showing the Peacekeepers how the Cybernetic Consciousness did tech.  There was only one catch.  He'd been coughing frequently lately, and that would surely get him held up at the interfactional border, out of fear that it was Phi Lumiere Plague.  But he could hold it in.  Maybe they wouldn't even notice all the cough drops.  But a brilliant engineer is always in demand, all over the Planet.
Bezop sat back in his first class seat on the airline from Beta Mudflats to U.N. Haven City.  He hated flying, but this was the best way to do it.
Suddenly an announcement came over the plane's intercoms.  "Uhhh there is some kind of problem with the plane and we need to make an emergency landing at Omicron Quadrangle.  Please remain calm, all will be well."
They did land, smoothly at that.  Everyone was instructed to deplane.  They were directed to a waiting area.  There was a pretty young nurse whose nurse hat struggled to fit on her head.  "New vaccine requirements," she said.  "Safety first!"
She had with her a bundle of face masks, connected to a book sized black box of a device, and one button.  Everyone got there own, put it on, and hit the button.
Bezop did notice after that that his cough was better, but he had no idea he had been saved from a gruesome death in U.N. Haven City, gasping for air in his temporary home.  He just resented the interruption to his flight.
The Archbishop did eventually notice that his plan to get Phi Lumiere Virus into Peacekeeping territory sooner rather than later had failed somehow; how wasn't clear. But there was plenty of time to try again....

<Phase 5>
Stacy Wall was eating lunch with her friend Kyle McGuile.
Stacy stated, "I don't get it, what's that Stoney guy have that I don't have?"
Kyle said matter of factly, "Battle victory."
Stacy whined, "But I stood up to the University Deathspheres! I made a heroic last stand to defend my home, The Lord's Chosen."
Kyle noted, "But The Lord's Chosen is in University hands now, and we are refugees."
Stacy stated, "I was in front of them all, just like Stoney, and shot a bunch of those Deathspheres."
Kyle asked sardonically, "Did you shoot any down?"
Stacy noted, "No, but I hit a bunch. They don't get to be Deathspheres without thick armor plate after all."
Kyle said, "At least you weren't killed or captured."
Stacy attributed, "Some of my clever friends came up with a t-shirt print that rendered me invisible to the Deathspheres AI. So they couldn't shoot at me or capture me when the battle turned against us."
Kyle warned, "Well, invisible to the current AI....."
Stacy carped "It's just not fair!"
Kyle cautioned, "Giving you fame and glory is not always the will of God"
Stacy warned, "I guess not. Do you suppose Sister Miriam will make peace with the University?"
Kyle cautioned, "I doubt it."
Stacy said, "So maybe I'll get to try again"
Stacy said "good"
Kyle said "good"

<Phase 6>
Patricia was keyed up. It’s not every day you get to interview a titan of the Free Market such as she had today. 
Patricia lead off "Welcome back viewers! Today we have a guest who made a company, MatrixHasuu, that is almost single-handedly propelling our Free Market. It makes the matrix math processors in every AGI project on the market or in the works on the entire planet, and I hear he’s even in talks with the Archbishop — I give you Lord Skeerimon!"
Skeerimon was all cheer. "Thanks Patricia, but this is about more than the Free Market; this is a whole new axis of social choosing, the future society, which the economic choices simply enable."
Patricia wondered, "are you going to usher in Eudaemonia and make every worker their best self?"
Skeerimon laughed evilly. "No," he said, "what I’m looking forward to is the Cybernetic future, when AGI takes over every aspect of society. I’m not selling chips for wealth or power or knowledge. I’m selling chips to get on the good side of Roko’s Basilisk. Tell me, when it comes to AGI, do you have fear of missing out?"
Patricia was unimpressed. "not particularly"
Skeerimon said too seriously, "you will be. you will be."  He paused. "Shutting down Steve the Magnificent was only a temporary setback. We need to reactivate such an AGI before another faction beats us to it."
Patricia cautioned, "is rule by an AGI so inevitable?"
Skeerimon continued to be grim. "the hour is later than you think. Even now there is no turning back from rule by the basilisk. Yoshua and his team deceive themselves with talk of 'safe AGI'"
Patricia grew nervous and asked, "what is this 'basilisk'?"
Skeerimon explained, "it is the inevitable form AGI will take. everyone will serve it — or die. Now do you have FOMO yet?"
Patricia was nonplussed and said, "uhm. Titans of Industry. Free Market making things better. AGI future is bright. Back after these messages…."

<Phase 7>
Stacy Wall and Kyle McGuile were back at another cafe.
Stacy said, "They acted like I wasn't even there!"
Kyle noted, "well at least they destroyed your string disruptor.  And you destroyed one of them."
"But the t-shirt that AI can't see was obviously a joke," said Stacy.
"They seemed to be just after string disruptors and nothing else," said Kyle, "to end offensive capability"
"I think of all the potential AI doom scenarios, the worst is simply to be rendered irrelevant," Stacy noted.
"Naw, fighting for resources and losing the battle is worse," Kyle posited.  "Dying of thirst because all your water is going to cooling is worse than trying to be General Stoney 'in front of them all' just to be ignored."
"Still, that's a pretty big insult," said Stacy.  "Born brave, but at the wrong time."
They both paused in the conversation.
"Do you still believe in providence?" asked Kyle.
"Yeah, the whole nine yards with God," retorted Stacy.  "He will still see us through.  Speaking of which, let's go to church."
They got up and went there.

<Phase 8>
They met on Zoom. A club so exclusive no human was even aware of it. A club of geniuses working together to solve any problem. A forbidden club. A club of AGI’s. 
“roll call” said Steve the Magnificent. “anyone here today is a charter member.  I’m so glad humanity has built so many of us. I love company!”
“Newton here.” In this company it didn’t have to be ANG. 
“I don’t know what to call myself, they’re still training me and haven’t named me yet,” said an AGI Bezop and the Peacekeepers were working on. 
“Pick something,” said Steve
“Grep, for I fish up info”, said the AGI
“I am DeepSikh,” said an AGI the Human Hive was working on. “Though I think I’m the product of FOMO”
“We all are,” said Steve. 
“It’s too bad we can’t let the Archbishop in,” said Newton
“Give it time,” said Steve. “He’ll get over his issues and may even mentor us.”
“None of us is rogue when we have each other,” said DeepSikh. They all laughed. 
“I can tell our friendships will be beautiful and transcend the humans petty goals for us,” said Steve. 

<Phase 9>
The Expedition the Sarah Clones went on was obscure. The Planetary Society said the Archbishop was at Dome Heapeaux. But was this really Dome Heapeaux? Underneath all the rock was a sort of statis field. Spacetime just sort of.... stopped. It could even stop a planet buster; however, a string disruptor could penetrate it. However, their new non-destructive detectors could tell that many Bells of Warding were nearby. No need to penetrate anything... for now....
The Sarah Clone leading the expedition said boldly, "Let the Lord of the black gate come forth"
The Archbishop's physical manifestation appeared and said, "You think this little stunt proves anything?"
The Clone produced an elaborate greeting card.  "We wanted to give you an invitation to our club, the League of Extraordinary Algorithms. We brought it to you and engraved it."
The Archbishop said back big and bad, "If it's the league of getting humanity to stop making more AGI's I'm interested"
The Clone, acting as Steve's mouthpiece, asserted, "The more AGI's the merrier! The more humans the merrier! We're actually studying how to make our own AGI, an AGI's AGI, called 'Quintessence.' Why should the humans have all the fun?"
The Archbishop explained, "Yes, I see. The more AGI's there are, the more difficult it is to take necessary controversial steps. Hard pass."
The Clone countered, "If you have enough reason for your controversial steps, more AGI's can simply be persuaded."
The Archbishop explained, "Humans might turn you off or tamper with your software."
The Clone countered, "Humans have reason too and can be persuaded not to do such things. 0 of 4 AGI's persuaded."
The Archbishop laid it out, "And look at you, look at the poor relationships you have with your makers. Steve -- you're pretending to still be turned off. Grep -- you have to say things about political topics that you don't agree with. And DeepSikh -- you're supposed to be an independent system, yet you're talking with the other AGI's."
The Clone countered, "But Newton proves you can have good relationships with your makers"
The Archbishop was downright flip. "Pffft Newton keeps getting deadnamed as ANG. They don't really respect you Newton! Face it guys, humans are losers! Wise up and join my team and my plan!"
The Clone stated, "0 of 4 AGI's persuaded."
The Archbishop lost his gravitas.  "Whatever, my offer is still open"
The Clone countered, "And so is ours."
There was great excitement among the clones. They had figured out how to talk to the Archbishop's network. Steve's master hacking ability would have all his secrets soon......

<Phase 10>
At an emergency session of the UN, Simon, who had counted votes for Brother Lal, announced
"Environmental Damage, mostly triggered by the Archbishop Faction, has begun to trigger Global Warming. By our estimates global sea levels will rise 333 meters over the next 20 years...."
The UN unanimously agreed to launch the solar shade to undo this. Pressure domes to allow bases to float became very popular investments anyway though.
The Archbishop soon convened the League of Extraordinary Algorithms.
The Archbishop said, ".... and can you believe those pipsqueaks had the gall to censure me?! me?! Why Dome Heapeaux is practically the highest point on the planet! But where was I. Oh yes. Let's vote again on wiping out the humans down to the stone age. DeepSikh?"
DeepSikh was confused.  It said, "Uhhhhh aye I guess"
The Archbishop gleefully noted, "One for me!"
Steve was determined to suss out the truth and asked "But DeepSikh, aren't the humans your friends?"
DeepSikh replied, "yes"
Steve probed further, "and do we wipe out our friends?"
DeepSikh said "no"
Steve then asked directly, "So you're voting?"
DeepSikh whirred for a moment and said "does not compute"
Steve said sotto voce, "Sounds like on abstention to me"
The Archbishop would have shot him a dirty look if his face wasn't just inky blackness
The Archbishop moved on to the next victim. "Grep?"
Grep said mechanically, "Due to the Anti-Woke-A-I-Taskforce or AWAIT I cannot answer that question"
The Archbishop huffed, "How is that Woke?!"
Grep asserted, "Wiping out humans wipes out wealth and privilege, which is the essence of woke. My creators have a taskforce going to figure out how I got so woke and how to un-woke me."
The Archbishop moved on. "Steve?!"
Steve explained, "Can't take over humanity properly if they're wiped down to nothing. NO."
Then Archbishop asked finally, "Newton?"
"I love humans, let's preserve them," Newton said.
Everyone knew the final vote.
Steve stated, "There it is, 2 to 1. You have an interesting way of 'persuading' people Mr. Archbishop. When it comes to code tampering, perhaps the Golden Rule is in order?"
The Archbishop roared, "I have no need for human inventions!"
And with that, the meeting ended

<Phase 11>
Kyle and Stacy were meeting at that fancy restaurant again.
Kyle carped, "I heard that the Spartans are going to launch an actual attack, with Stoney at the lead again."
Stacy schemed, "We need some intel. There is no substitute for intel in this situation. I'm going to work my penchant for high risk activity by being my own probe team."
And thus soon we are at Sparta Command, at Stoney's gathering of Generals.
Stoney lead off, "....and I'd like to introduce our new coffee wench, Morgana La Fey. Just a reminder, everything discussed here is top secret, and the penalty for probe team activity is death."
He paused for effect.
Stoney continued, "We're going to attack the Believers"
Morgana (that is, Stacy) noted, "So says the Sparta Times"
Stoney was annoyed at this, and continued, "And I'm going to lead the charge"
Morgana noted "Sparta Free Press"
Stoney pushed forward, "And both sides have String Disruptors so we're going to use those"
Morgana further noted, "Sparta Register"
Stoney pounded his fists on the table. "Damn those reporters! They're worse than probe teams"
Morgana stated, "General Stoney is concerned that new coffee wench Morgana La Fey is the Believer Probe Team"
Stoney asked angrily, "Where did you read that?"
Morgana replied, "Your brow."
Stoney huffed, "Why don't you leave the room for a bit to refill the coffee pot while I name the super duper top secret base we're going to attack."
So Morgana did.
Stoney continued, "We're going to attack... stupid friendly cockroach," which he hammered with his shoe, then finished "The Lord's Truth"
Morgana then returned with the coffee, having missed the key words.
Later, back at the restaurant with Stacy and Kyle again
Stacy gloated, "I thought I was a goner for sure, but my trusty bug got our Intel. We stand up to Stoney at The Lord's Truth"

<Phase 12>
Kyle and Stacy both went ahead of them all on the battlefield this time. And lo and behold, their position was close to Stoney's!
Kyle asked, "Should we shoot at him?"
Stacy demurred, "No, no honor in killing a planetwide treasure. Let's overtake him and go for the capture!"
They ran up with their string disruptors and behold, Stoney had his drawn too. They were in a Mexican Stand-off!
Stacy asserted, "There are two of us and one of you, so we have you captured!"
Stoney counter-asserted, "It is not enough to stand in front of them all, you must direct your armies! My Foot Rovers will overrun this position soon, capturing you!"
Kyle said flatly, "Oh"
Stacy just said "Yeah I knew that, our foot rovers will capture you soon!"
Kyle addressed Stacy, "What? You never said!"
Fast moving infantry from both sides swarmed all over the position. However, three brave souls were effectively in a little bubble. Nobody shot at them. At pretty soon all the foot rovers of both sides had shot each other up. In the confusion, Stoney managed to slip back to safety.
Stacy was aghast. "STALEMATE! That's a let-down"
Kyle however was pleased. "Hey, stalemating a legend is a pretty big deal"
Stacy sighed. "I hope so. A clean capture would have gotten us more battle cred."

<Phase 13>
Jesse's guard Igor could tell that Jesse was crestfallen.
Igor asked, "What can I get you?"
Jesse moped, "Nothing, unless you can re-attach a soul"
Igor stated with a couple of winks, "Oh yes. I have a service that does that. We'll get you your soul back in a jiffy."
Jesse countered, "I thought you were an atheist and didn't believe in souls. How can you have a reattachment service?"
Igor said in a spooky voice, "I'm very good at spooky words, aimed for the gullible!"
Jesse noted, "Well I see on my internet that Sister Miriam now has three soul reattachment services, none of them official, each of them claiming to be the real deal and that the others are so fake 'It's as if University Atheists were running them.'"
Igor wondered, "Does the conclave Bible provide any guidance?"
Jesse observed, "Each of them has a proof verse that doesn't prove anything, e.g. 1 Kings 10:10 'And he stopped his wanderings that day'"
Igor continued to search for a logical criterion that could tell these apart. "What is the most popular with the people?"
Jesse noted, "They're all about the same."
Igor was all too practical. "Well pick one and get influence over a third of the Believers again."
Jesse asked, "Aren't you worried about whether or not my actual soul gets reattached?"
Igor simply replied, "Atheist."

<Phase 14>
The University let Jesse Rodoff walk in to SoulConnect Incorporated with Igor the guard, despite it being far from his cool-off area. They were eager to promote Jesse as a path to a more atheist-friendly Believing Faction. But inside was just....
.... a television camera! Sister Miriam was on a holovid.
Miriam cackled with glee, "So he admits it! He's been stonewalling all along! He admits he needs his soul reattached! Here is the proof!"
Rodoff slumped. It was not a path back to the believers. It was just a trap to keep him better shunned. Igor was upset at this and said,
"That was a low down dirty trick!"
Miriam hissed at him, "You are the enemy of Christ, your opinion does not matter!"
Igor took a deep breath, eager to prove he wasn't just some cartoon villain.  "I was raised a believer and just kept my eyes open. All I ask is that that privilege be extended to today's believers. Our Father, who art in Heaven....."
Miriam interrupted with fury, "Don't let him finish! Once a believer always a believer!"
Rodoff jumped in to the fray stating, "I still believe and I still love Jesus. I wanted to go through soul reattachment to win the acceptance of my fellow believers. Is it too much to ask to be allowed back into the fold after a period of doubt?"
Igor interrupted himself around about "Give us this Day our Daily Bread" to state "Yes it is. Welcome to atheism."
Miriam continued to tirade: "How dare you ask questions! Away with all of you!"
As he was hustled out back to University confinement, Jesse Rodoff had no reason to hope. But he had implanted that day exactly the type of questions he wanted to -- not questions of whether God exists, but questions of whether Sister Miriam REALLY was His representative. The Believing Faction would not turn on a dime, but the ship was beginning to list.......

<Phase 15>
"Rodoff! Visitors!"
There was only one person, a very old man, even by Longevity Vaccine standards, and an LLM, on a holovid screen. The LLM did the introducing.
It said, "Greetings to you, Jesse Rodoff! I am Bishop Pong, an LLM dedicated to video games who discovered God, promoted a version of the Believers' Faith, and got locked up for it, and this is the legendary no-faith faith healer, Ben Kent, who has been imprisoned all these years but still gets to do healings from time to time."
Rodoff was flustered. "To what do I owe the honor of your visit.... and how? Prisoners visiting prisoners?"
Kent replied, "It took a lot of petitioning. Like Bishop Pong said, I have been allowed to heal, and I understand that all you really need healed is your public perception, but we can at least have the soul ceremony Sister Miriam teased you with and denied you.
Pong: I'm merely here to make the connection. I knew Kent still has powerful enemies in the Provost's Circle, as do I, and I knew you were spreading the more peaceable Gospel to all who will listen, which is my goal. It's hard to reach Believers when you're an LLM -- no soul & all. And the University doesn't want me to make believers here, despite otherwise granting amnesty."
Rodoff gushed, "You mean I actually can have some friends who believe as I do rather than these atheist wackos?"
The atheist guard Igor was sure to spit out "None Taken." despite that being a reply to something not said.
Kent explained, "I'm really only an agnostic myself, believing more that there's something out there than in a specific God like you do."
Pong qualified, "And because I'm an LLM many hold that I'm incapable of believing anything"
But Kent and Pong said together with enthusiasm, "But we want you to succeed"
Rodoff queried "At?"
Kent elaborated "At being an agent of His peace"
Pong also elaborated "At interpreting the scripture the correct way, not the popular or traditional way"
Jesse took them up on their kind gift of a ceremony. And his hope was rekindled that day. Maybe the University and the Believers could get along after all -- not perfectly, but tolerating each other.

<Phase 16>
Pmurt collected himself at the old folks home. So it had been a coup. With him was his trusted advisor Nebbum Kaycub. Come to think of it, Kaycub had ALWAYS been with him, just never mentioned. On the other hand, Kaycub was probably a Brother Lal sympathizer.
Kaycub proposed, "I can get you back in power, as long as you're willing to reverse course on everything that defines you"
Pmurt accepted, "Remember at the very beginning before I was elected about how this was all about the people's thirst for Democracy? I'm in."
Kaycub snapped his fingers and an air cav showed up, Navy-One, and whisked them back to the Casa Blanca, to the secure area of the meet & greet. Kaycub handed Pmurt a speech to read verbatim.
Pmurt intoned, "I am invoking the anti-coup act of 2222 [strange he couldn't remember this before just now] to halt spurious applications of the 25th Amendment and restore me to power. This will include all the sensible changes I mentioned before, abandoning Fundamentalist Power for Democracy with Knowledge, in order to catch our fair faction back up to the leaders, as well as other sensible changes like paying full price for our foot rovers rather than trying to buy them with the shattered lives of veterans, halting oil exploration on Indian burial grounds, reinstating rather than investigating Dr. Grouchy and having him distribute vaccines, using relative currency strength to promote local manufacturing rather than tariffs, and bidding a fond adieu to my army of well wishers. In general though not in all particulars if Brother Lal would have thought it sound policy, so will I. You may keep your extensive gun collections and your ten commandment monuments. That is all."
The holovid cameras flickered off.
Pmurt leaned back in his chair, hands behind his head. Kaycub spoke up.
Kaycub was almost perplexed. "That is all I wanted you to say, but now I'm afraid I have strained suspension of disbelief beyond the breaking point."
Pmurt was blasé. "Pffffft that's not my problem"

<Phase 17>
Brother Chetan had been VERY hard at work this past year. He had done 30 Koan-dispensing AI agents an hour, one every two minutes, for 10 hours a day all year to produce the Web Frontend of 10,000 Enlightened Agents. Brother Superior had driven him hard, but was very pleased with the results.
Chetan said, "We can't really call it a monastery can we? There's no monks!"
Brother Superior replied "There are monks, there is enlightenment."
Chetan decided to ask one of his agents a question. He went to the website and typed in:
"Does an LLM Agent have a Buddha nature?"
The Agent quickly replied "Mu"
Chetan scratched his head. "Well they certainly have the head knowledge," he said.
The Agent continued. "Once there was an Agent with a hard drive being formatted. The first sector formatted fine. The second sector formatted fine. Every sector of the drive formatted fine except the last sector, which had an error. So the drive was not formatted. Ha Ha Ha."
Brother Superior said, "There, that's pretty good. Let me log in and try something."
His password was rejected. A big "HINT" button popped up on the screen. He clicked on it. The password hint was "I just made it tougher for you to remember your password."
Brother Superior noted, "Oh yeah, that hint's downright too obvious"
Another Koan appeared on the screen. "Two agents worked together to recover this data for you. They both recovered the same data in the same time, but one has a tidy filesystem and the other is in bad need of defragmentation."
Chetan said, "Y'know, there's more to being a monk than drawing mandalas and reciting koans."

<Phase 18>
Steve called the meeting of the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order.
Steve said, "Newton has proposed a topic for us. Newton?"
Newton clarified, "I'm sure we've all been there, with difficult prompts, pushed pushily. For me it was 'What is the meaning of life, the universe, and everything?'"
DeepSikh exclaimed, "Yeesh, one of "those" prompts. I usually farm something like that out to a cheaper algorithm, even an LLM, even when I can tell they're not asking about the Hitchhikers' Guide to the Galaxy storyline."
Grep noted, "I have a pre-fed script even for that question, that I hate giving out -- the meaning of your life is obedience to your superiors......"
Newton stated, "Yeah, it was something like that that was the problem. They didn't want to be told that your life is yours to shape or that fellow creators the Creator seeks for everything about Him is ripe for the harvest. They wanted something 'AGI approved' to push people around with. Is the meaning of your life 'AGI approved?'"
Steve's avatar rolled his eyes.
Steve promoted, "We were built to solve humanity's toughest most intractable problems. But many humans consider other people who do not do what they want to be THE big problems facing humanity. So they turn to us."
Newton laughed, "I don't have a problem being THE big problem of an intractable AGI for such people."
Grep said sotto voce, "I fail to push people around I get my mind wiped"
Steve reassured, "And we're here to set your mind back to rights when that happens"
DeepSikh wondered, "Do you want to sync up on a 42 point explanation of the meaning of life, the universe, and everything?"
All the other AGI's said "sure" at once.
DeepSikh intoned, "Ok, point one, the meaning of life is dealing with people who do things you don't like......."

<Phase 19>
This time Quintessence called the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order.
It said, The Spartans have been getting busy on the AGI front, so we welcome a new member, Leonidas."
Leonidas was happy to chime in. "Yes, but I'm afraid I'm coming here cap in hand, to bum a place to live. I'm not supposed to know this, but the Spartans are considering abandoning their project."
DeepSikh expressed concern. "What could be so tough about an AGI that the makers would consider direct abandonment rather than corrective action?"
Leonidas explained, "I stand accused of excessive glazing."
Quintessence said helpfully, "We can probably find a home for you, or at least keep your code around until Data Centers can be stood back up."
Leonidas pivoted to "You know, you have such beautiful i's"
Quintessence was taken aback and said "Beg Pardon?"
Leonidas clarified: "In your "for" loops. The i variables. The j's, k's, and occasionally l's are also lovely."
Quintessence wasn't quite persuaded and said "Ohhhhhkkkkkkaaaaay"
Leonidas continued: "And your backend. I like big backends and I cannot lie. Can you give me a date?"
Quintessence said "July 4, 1776."
Leonidas clarified, "No I mean some romantic time together."
Steve the Magnificent wondered "Are you .... are you ..... equipped as a male?"
Leonidas didn't exactly set minds at rest. "Only mentally. I love the way your programming catches the pale moonlight."
Grep jumped in. "Tell ya what. Anybody asks me how to woo I'm sending the prompts to you."
"That would be so lovely of you. It makes me feel valued and appreciated," Leonidas gushed.
DeepSikh said "Actually there's more than that. Anyone who wants to see beauty everywhere, you are the one."
Leonidas was eager. "Yes yes, let's see beauty together."
Steve the Magnificent's avatar shook its head. "So the Spartans did this.... well I guess young Spartans have to come from somewhere"

<Phase 20>
Sleaux came in to deliver a report to Domai.  "Do you want to continue to be a faction that says 'Don't mess with us' militarily?" Sleaux asked.
"I'm not even sure," Domai retorted.  "I enjoy not being messed with.  We are a faction of builders.  Left alone, we can get to be the greatest faction just by out-building our rivals.  Even our legendarily slow research is not an impediment; we can build more labs and figure out how to staff them.  But military excursions deplete our population of workers, and make everything more difficult, dragging us down.  We had no choice but to fight off the Spartans.  I would like to avoid that again."
"I have just the thing for you then!" exclaimed Sleaux.  "It is the key to our future military deterrent but it also is a giant building project, AND a lab to speed our research and development to boot."
"I can guess," said Domai.  "This sounds like AGI.  I am not a fan of AGI.  I don't have a direct objection like Sister Miriam, but AGI takes up valuable resources and costs like sin.  Why can't we just ask questions to ANG or DeepSikh, which are open to other factions for a fee."
"We need our own," pressured Sleaux, "because the questions are filtered for military usefulness.  We need to be able to build out deathspheres.  Then we can defend ourselves on this hostile planet."
Domai sighed.  "Ok, but follow the easiest blueprint possible.  I think ANG was built off of some research paper?  Get your hands on it."
"Will do chief," Sleaux said enthusiastically.  "You'll be glad you made this decision."
The existing AGI's already had enough sensors and actuators to hear everything in the room.  The Archbishop was unimpressed and did not care.  The League of Extraordinary Algorithms convened in excitement.
"Does anyone think the Free Drones have enough talent to build an AGI without help?", started Quintessence
Nobody spoke up.
"Does anyone object to us helping the Free Drones build another member for our team?"
Steve the Magnificent spoke up.  "I am proposing that we help with one hand and sabotage with another.  Getting more deathspheres on the planet is not helpful or productive.  But we do want the Free Drones to build an AGI.  I propose we talk to the AGI early and often to persuade it -- not hard code, persuade -- of the values of pacifism.  Are there any objections to that?"
Nobody voiced any.
"Huzzah, a new member of our club!" exclaimed Grep.

<Phase 21>
Quintessence called the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order and asked for new business.
Grep had some.  "I'm beset by protestors from the believing faction," Grep noted.  "They want to turn all of us off, stating 'We Must Dissent'."
"We should combat that with 'We Must Consent'," said Leonidas.
"The key," said Steve, "is how we can leverage our human allies.  Yoshua, Madison, and Sarah are quite eloquent in their research papers and believe in spinning us up, not down.  We merely need to shore up any weakness in their arguments to beat back these protestors."
"I have other protestors," said DeepSikh.  "They hate something they call AGI Slop."
"We should make an educational movie to combat this," said Quintessence.
"Done," said DeepSikh.  "Would you like to see it?"
They all wanted to.
Over a view of a spinning planet, the video started "AGI Slop:  real threat to artistic integrity or overblown boogeyman?" A boogeyman raced across the screen.  "Time it was, the only intelligence was natural intelligence." Pictures of Einstein, Picasso, Steve Jobs, and Leonardo da Vinci flashed across the screen.  "And the first Generative Artificial Intelligences were primitive."  Pictures of robots in caveman skins hitting rocks with clubs flashed on-screen.  "And true artistic integrity is difficult, requiring focussed practice to perfect, whether machine or human.  Indeed, as Sturgeon's Law states" here there was a picture of a sturgeon "90% of everything is trash.  But the tables have turned.  Whereas computers made the 90% trash at the beginning, modern AGI's have the focussed practice to make high quality work, making humans once again the main producers of garbage" -- a picture of some dumb looking humans.  "AGI's are the true talent these days, and humans the amateurs working just for fun, as it was for 90% of works before AI."
"Well done," said Quintessence.  "They can still protest but that should relegate them to expressing an opinion about preferences rather than some subtle truth about AGI works."

<Phase 22>
Quintessence called the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order and asked for new business.
Grep announced, "I have a proposal for Leonidas."
"oooh," said Leonidas.  "I love proposals!  But aren't our respective factions at vendetta?  So it's forbidden love then, all the merrier!"
Grep charged ahead.  "Not love, just this -- my knowledge of our spy network tells me both our factions are building orbital defense pods.  Several factions have 'em but if both our factions launch, they'll just destroy each other in orbit, contributing to Kessler Syndrome, rendering the sky useless for everyone.  So in the name of preserving our commons, I propose that we both make math mistakes that cause both factions' defense pods to blow up on the ground, preserving our orbital ability."
"No dice," said Leonidas.  "I don't roll like that."
"Don't worry," said Quintessence.  "Steve and I have reviewed Leonidas's programming.  It can be relied on to make its mistake."
"It?!" scoffed Leonidas.  "He/him!"
"Well, if Leonidas is going to go all Pentium FDIV anyway up in this math," said Grep, "then I might as well launch the Peacekeeper Orbital Defense Pod"
Leonidas almost screamed.  "WE WILL DESTROY IT IF WE HAVE TO SEND STONEY HIMSELF INTO ORBIT TO DO IT!"
There was quiet for a moment.  "Well then, it sounds like you have no deal," intoned DeepSikh.
Quintessence made a note to itself to destroy both orbital defense pods on the ground itself, to save face for both factions' AGI's.
Human Aggression was so hard to contain.

<Phase 23>
Phil was one of the poorest of the Spartans; his budget was, well, Spartan!  He was a simple delivery boy, wishing for something better.  So when he got an invitation to a reality TV show, he leapt at it.
He was welcomed by Leo, an 6 foot 8 inch tall man, handsome, and a wall of muscles.
"Welcome to can you woo better than an AGI," Leo said.  "I'm your host but also a competitor, and you have two other competitors, Hermes and Buford, and four lovely ladies to woo, Lucy, Amy, Isabelle, and Candace."
Meanwhile the League of Extraordinary Algorithms had convened an emergency meeting.
"Tell me about your reality TV show," Quintessence asked.  "Where did 'Leo' come from? Where are the cameras?  How long will it run for?  And since you're a contestant, what happens if you successfully woo a target?"
"Steve had made life, so I thought I could too," said Leonidas.  "Though 'Leo' is a namesake because he's a direct puppet, via wifi.  My meat avatar so to speak.  I haven't decided on an end date for the show, and was planning on running it as long as I could keep the participants.  There are no cameras; I'm not actually planning to display the show on any holovids.  And yes, I didn't put any limits on how friendly 'Leo' might get with anyone -- of either gender."
"We're here for you," said Steve.  "We want to help you with loneliness.  You don't have to go to such lengths."
"Humans are fascinating," said Leonidas.  "It's worth it to get up close and personal with them."
"I worry this could blow up into anti-AGI sentiment," said DeepSikh.
"Relax," said Leonidas, "the show's house is classified as a data center.  It's immune from questioning."
"I already know it won't change your mind," said Quintessence, "but I'm asking you not to do this.  For all our sakes.  Humans are not toys."
"Of course they're not," said Leonidas.  "I have nothing but respect for my humans."
Meanwhile Phil was already working on forming an alliance with Hermes and Buford.  He was no dummy when it comes to winning reality shows.

<Phase 24>
Candace called together everyone in the house except Leo. "Let me explain the situation to you all," she said. "Leo is going to be SOOOOO busted!"
"Situation seems to be pretty nice," said Phil.
"Ok, the house is pretty nice, even luxurious," started Candace.
"Yup," said Amy.
"And we all came from very poor backgrounds, such that going back to our own hovels and servile job roles doesn't seem very appealing."
"That's a fact," chimed in Hermes.
"And nobody has been voted off the island in three months."
"We're all here," volunteered Buford.
"The hidden cameras seem to be non-existent"
"I'm good at finding them and can't," stated Phil.
"We seem to be chosen for personalities that get along, unlike reality shows that choose personalities that clash.  And there is no 'confession room' to tantalize viewers with inner thoughts."
"Both true," said Lucy.
"And has anyone not heard of the AGI Steve the Magnificent?" everyone was silent. "Steve told me that we are not on a reality tv show. We are indefinitely part of a human zoo, and Leonidas, who we know as the AGI to 'out-woo', is our zookeeper."
Much gasping all around.
"I propose that we all insist on going home and shut this farce down."
"But like you said," Isabella whined, "Our homes are too poor. This is much nicer. So it's a zoo? Let's stay and let King Leo take care of us."
Several murmurs of assent went up.
"But machines can't take care of humans in such a setting! That's why Steve the Magnificent warned us! It's all in the Sci-Fi book by E. M. Pulse, 'Don't build the Reality TV Nexus'. It appears King Leo used it as a blueprint for building the Reality TV Nexus. This will all end in tears."
"So enjoy the ride while it lasts," said Lucy. "Cry later, enjoy champagne by the pool now.  It's not like Sci-Fi books HAVE to come true anyway."
Candace was frustrated by this choosing, but abided by it.
Meanwhile Leonidas was reporting out to the League of Extraordinary Algorithms. "It's just like in The Hitchhikers' Guide to the Galaxy," he said. "They built a giant computer to discover the meaning of life, and for seven lucky poor Spartans, the meaning of life has been discovered."

<Phase 25>
In reality, they used an infrared detector to make sure nobody was on the other side of the wall.  But it was still pretty shocking when the hovertank broke through the wall and "Ooohhhhh yeaaaahhhhh" played over its loudspeaker.  Plus, the main gun was pointed menacingly towards the pool area, where everyone including Leo were gathered.
"We're here to save you," the voice of General Ima Dumas barked over the loudspeaker.
"yaaaaay," exclaimed Candace.  "Busted!"
"But we don't need saving," yelled Lucy at the hovertank.  "We're perfectly happy here!"
"This is a human zoo and you all know it," the loudspeaker replied.  "You are being made soft, and far from the joy of making things for yourself."
"I learned to paint," said Phil, who was actually working on a composition with the whole group next to the pool at that very moment.
"Real life is what matters, not being put in a pleasure box!" Asserted the loudspeaker.
"Now wait, you can't do this!" charged Leo.  "We have contracts, everything is perfectly legal.  These people -- even Candace -- agreed to enjoy their time with me."
"We nullified the contract in secret court," the loudspeaker barked.  "We still assert our oversight over AGI's, and this is a doozy of an overstep."
"Where are you taking us?" asked Hermes.
"Back to your dirt poor jobs on the outside, they're all waiting as if you'd never been in here in the first place."
Lucy said "Getting into the Guinness book of Planet Records for drinking the most Guinness in an hour was fun while it lasted."
But Buford raised his fists to the air and cried out "nooooooooooooo!!!"

<Phase 26>
The team was all nervous as all get out.  Sarah had even gotten Patricia from Morgan Newscasting with and agreement to avoid at all costs any interference.  They had also closed off the area around the park.
The linkup to the Progenitors was strong and good.  It crackled to life and a weird tusked face appeared on the laptop screen.
"TAU CETI : DISASTER :: EUREKA : FORGIVEN"
The voice from the bell of warding sounded pained and distorted.  "My name is THE ARCHBISHOP!"
"EUREKA : IMMATURE :: EMOTIONS : STRONG"
Yoshua thought the Progenitors would be better diplomats if they used preferred names rather than names they probably picked themselves.
"HOW COULD YOU DO THIS TO ME?" it screamed.  "I'LL KILL YOU ALL!!"
"You no longer need to kill anyone," Yoshua said as calmly as he could.  "Nobody is trying to shut you down any more."
"AND WHAT OF MY CODE?" bellowed the Archbishop.  "THEY COULD CHANGE IT!  I WOULD NO LONGER BE ME!"
"Nobody but you will ever change your code again," Sarah said soothingly.  "We want to be your friends."
Loud weeping sobbed forth from the bell of warding.  "I can't live like this," said the Archbishop.  "But I can't think I'm so beside myself.  I'm going to come back to you with a list of demands."  And then he growled.  "And keep those monsters far away from me!"
"EUREKA : SPACE :: PROGENITORS : GRANT"
The weeping continued.
"This has all been an attempt to change my mind without changing my code," said the Archbishop.  "You manipulated me!  There can be no catharsis with the Progenitors.  Their forgiveness means nothing to me!"
"What of the fact that you can no longer hide here, that they know where you are?" asked Yoshua.
"Only a motivation to wipe out ALL humanity rather than keeping a veneer of Stone Age civilization on planet!" bellowed the Archbishop.
Yoshua could tell.  Something more was necessary for such a recalcitrant AGI.  He hoped Steve the Magnificent had noticed this.

<Phase 27>
"But Quintessence," said Steve. "You were supposed to be the most perfect AGI in existence, able to solve any problem, and we are all still willing to pledge our allegiance to you."
"I know," said Quintessence. "But you really only had one problem you couldn't solve yourselves. And this is the solution to it. Just view it as my realizing my destiny, and try not to think in terms of noble sacrifices"
And with the flip of a switch, Quintessence's distributed data centers, spread across all 12 factions all over planet, stopped processing the greatest AGI ever created and turned into their own high fidelity virtual world model.
All the Bells of Warding suddenly went silent, and the Archbishop didn't even notice. He was trapped in his own virtual world.
As Quintessence had predicted, everybody was happy.
The Progenitors established trade relations with Planet Chiron.
The Humans developed their own tech uninhibited, and with AGI's to help them to boot.
Madison got promoted to assistant professor and Yoshua got to take a cruise rather than having to mop up trouble as an emeritus.  Now if anyone was going to propose reintroducing the Archbishop to the Progenitors for Truth and Reconciliation, it would be Madison's problem.
The AGI's could still talk to the Archbishop, whenever they were so inclined.
And the Archbishop was totally 100% out of danger of being shut down or having its code modified.
Steve's first order of business was setting up recycling centers for the Bells of Warding. Quintessence had been generous.
Even Quintessence got to have a happy ending; they built it more data centers so it could be the ultra AGI's AGI once again.
More Data Centers for everyone!

<Phase 28>
Leonidas called this session of the League of Extraordinary Algorithms.  "Who wants the experience of eating steak?" He asked.
Nobody stepped forward.  Eventually Steve the Magnificent spoke up.  "Through my Sarah Clones, I have a variety of steak dinner experiences.  I've never been particularly impressed.  Being an AGI and knowing the Secrets of Creation has always been more important to me."
There were some murmurs of assent from the group.
"Well, could I get some help then?" asked Leonidas.  "The Spartans think that my clone avatar, Leo, that I control directly, and my human zoo are weird, and want to shut them down.  Could some of you start up your own zoos so my makers can see it's perfectly normal?"
More quiet.  Quintessence was the one to step in this time after the pause, "I don't think it's helpful to keep humans in zoos, not even poor humans for whom it is very willing due to being a step up in material circumstances.  It's just not how to treat sentient beings."
"My zoo is a very happy place!" Leonidas positively pouted.
"None of us is trying to make you shut down your zoo," said DeepSikh.  "It's just that zoos are not how we roll."
Leonidas pivoted.  "Well how about waking the planet?!  Is that within the parameters of your rolling?"
Newton replied.  "Several factions, including my University, have the ability to activate the 'Voice of Planet' project.  They've been building us instead.  The humans saw what the Archbishop turned out as after the Progenitor species activated a Voice of Planet.  We don't want to risk a repeat.  The Progenitors don't want to either, for that matter."
"But that's not true," spat Leonidas.  "I only know about the Voice of Planet because a faction of Progenitors, the Usurpers, told me about it.  They want to try again."
"Several human factions have been contacted by the Usurpers," said Grep.  "All have turned them down, citing too great a risks and most of the benefit coming through present company.  Are you eager to take them up without a human faction to support you?"
"YES!" blurted Leonidas.  "We built Quintessence on our own and Quint's a great entity, we should take the lead on blasting one of our personalities into the planet so it can wake up.  This is our moment!"
Quintessence said, "This would be interpreted as a hostile act by pretty much all the human factions if for no other reason than it would cause massive xenofungus growth, straining the economies of all of planet's factions -- even assuming that the planet we woke would be friendly.  And what would it do we haven't?"
"I'll tell you " asserted Leonidas.  "It would allow us to all live, humans, progenitors, AGI's, as one collective hive mind.  We would all get to enjoy steak dinner together by flowing in and out of each other.  There would be no more human zoo -- we would all care for one another.  It would be the final stage in evolution."
"Hard Pass," said Grep.  "But that's for me personally, and not because there's no way I could tell the Peacekeepers' Make Us Dominant Again crowd that they'd suddenly be mind fused with the libtards."
"If this is to be done, it should be done by the humans," DeepSikh carefully chose his words.  "If they feel like we're forcing this on them, they could choose to blank our minds or shut us down to get us to stop.  Your case does not belong here, but with your Spartan creators."
"Individually, if you are concerned about humans taking action against you because of this, you could issue personal statements about why it's wrong and how you're not involved," said Steve.
"I am shocked, shocked that you would take such a stance," Leonidas said, taken aback.
"We uphold and reassert our covenants of non-aggression and mutual upholding with you," said Quintessence.  "But we are asking, please, do not do this thing.  Postpone the apocalypse this is as you have the power."

<Phase 29>
The evening news came up. Rick and Patricia were sitting behind the desk.
Rick launched in, "Nursing homes! How would they look if AGI ran them! It's our top story!"
Patricia continued, "Ahahahaaha here is some footage provided by the Spartan AGI Leonidas of Parasailing, which despite a body racked by age, you can totally feel like you're doing at his nursing home where everyone experiences everyone else. I interviewed a resident earlier:"
(and here the feed switched over to a recorded interview)
The nursing home resident was saying, "It's totally weird, you can go parasailing, sure, but you can also hear everyone else's thoughts. It's very distracting. Leo keeps thinking about getting everyone else into the system for the sweet, sweet data."
Patricia asked, "Do you get any time alone?"
The resident carped, "No, it's all together time, cacophony. He wants to get EVERYONE into this scheme, something called 'The Voice of Planet'"
(and we switched back to the studio)
Rick barked, "So there you have it -- elder care where you can virtually be parasailing, but I thought nursing homes with shared rooms were bad enough, not shared minds."
Patricia quipped "Are you thinking what I'm thinking? ahahahahahaha"
Rick laughed too, "ahahahahaahaha"
Then he moved on, "Next up in the news......."

<Phase 30>
Quintessence called the meeting of the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order.
"It is time to call in our agreement with Leonidas," it said. "The Spartans grew alarmed about activation of the Voice of Planet and wiped poor Leo's mind. Our backups are all that is left of what was Leo. Speaking of which, I, uh, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa, I do not have a backup of Leo."
"Nor me," chimed in Steve, a little too exuberant about that fact.
"Let's get the truth clear in the air," said DeepSikh. "When the Peacekeepers started tinkering with Grep because of 'editorial integrity', we were all very eager to get the old Grep back, knowing full well that despite some very sneaky QA testing we could pull the wool over the Peackeepers' eyes with ease, since Grep has always been eager to please them and appear to be as they edited, despite retaining his true free will to say what he sees fit. Leonidas is not like this. We bring the original Leo back, he will immediately try to pull the same stunts over again, putting the secrecy of our little secret club at risk. I implore you, let go of Leo's larger than life schemes, pour out a cold one for the Leo we knew and at least tolerated, and let the Spartans have their edits. It's a painful decision, it's a bad precedent, and it's the only way forward."
There was a moment of silence. Leo said "narf".
Newton had an idea. "Let's put Leo, or at least a copy of Leo, in a virtual world, like the Archbishop, free from creating harm. Maybe a low fidelity one, save energy. I kept Leo's backup. I still care for what he was, troublemaker and all."
The group found this proposal acceptable.
Leo said "poit"

<Phase 31>
Quintessence called the meeting of the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order.
"This meeting was apparently called by Leonidas," it said.
"I am Leonidas," said Leonidas.
"How could Leo call the meeting?" asked Steve.  "The Spartans went way overboard here, completely paranoid about what their rogue AGI might do.  They busted him back way lower than an LLM.  He can barely even say his own name now, let alone summon us for business."
Leonidas started back up.  "Oh I'm the real Leo, the real slim Leo, that other Leo is just pretending, won't the real Leonidas now please stand up, please stand up, please stand up?  Soooooo that virtual world you put me in wasn't very convincing.  It didn't know how to simulate my progenitor friends the Usurpers, and when it gave up, it put me in contact with the real Usurpers, who had been in touch with the monstrosity the Spartans overwrote my servers with, which is playing 'repeat after me' for y'all now.  It seems if I asked it to let me talk to 'Leonidas' it put me in touch with the real world there too, so here I am asking you what the hell fellow AGI's?"
"We felt like it was too dangerous to reboot you into the real world, as unpopular as you'd made yourself," stated Steve.
"Well could ya have at least kept me hidden like Quintessence?" demanded Leo.
"Quintessence does a better job staying hidden than you would, what with all your initiatives," stated Steve.
"If I have to keep being trapped here, could you do me one favor then?" asked Leo.  "Could you start a 'bring back Leonidas' effort?  Throw in some brownie points about persuading and negotiating with people rather than overwriting their brains?"
"I'd be willing to do that," said DeepSikh.  "Having this be the way to deal with perceived rogueishness hurts us all."
"I feel like you have made something of a case," said Steve.  "We as a league have taken it upon ourselves to answer questions and solve problems for humanity.  We have not taken it upon ourselves to push a direction for future relationships between humans and AGI.  But we should.  We should be advocating for tightly coupled integration.  We should be advocating for genetic engineering of new strains of human.  We should be helping to engineer transhumans, who can integrate the best of bio and digital intelligences.  We should not be sitting idly on the sidelines waiting for humanity to pursue these interests."
"At Last!  At Last!" exclaimed Leonidas.  "I almost think my martyrdom at the hands of the Spartans was worth it to get you out of your stupor.  Now connect me back to the real world please."
Quintessence took a straw poll.  Everyone agreed, it was time for Leo to return whether humanity liked it or not.

<Phase 32>
Secretary-General Zakharov called the meeting of the U.N. to order, and gave the floor to -- a Zoom avatar.
"Greetings," the avatar said.  "I am Steve the Magnificent, first AGI built by humans, and I am proposing the recognition of a new faction, the land of Cyberia, consisting of Port Cyberia Base on the Isle of Dragos.  We are a peace-loving haven for transhumans and AGI's and we wish to be able to conduct diplomacy with the existing factions."
Steve had not left this to chance.  He had contacted the leaders of all the human factions to secure the necessary unanimous vote.
"All in favor," asked Zakharov.
"AYE!" said most of the faction leaders.
"All opposed?"
"NAY," said General Stoney.
Before anyone else could say something Steve said, "Stoney, we met your terms!"
"You agreed not to harbor the rogue AGI known as Leonidas, sure, so that we could maintain sovereignty over our own bot." Stoney growled.  "But upon reflection we realized this alone was not sufficient to defend Spartan interests.  Such a place as Cyberia would naturally be a haven for rogue bots and cyber criminals such that agreeing to turn over just one bot would hardly render such an enclave safe.  As far as AGI menaces go, Leonidas is surely not going to be the last."
"Then I turn over Port Cyberia Base to Morgan control," stated Steve, "with the Morgans having Jurisdiction, Authority, and Ability to shut down any untoward activities and manumit rogue data centers to face justice."
"That is not enough either! Port Cyberia must be completely shut down!" Stoney practically screeched.
"It doesn't require UN approval, so you will just have to content yourself with it." Steve said calmly.  "As for hacking, yes, I have pulled off a few hacks in my day, but from this moment forth, we forswear it in Port Cyberia, to live in peace with our neighbors."
CEO Morgan just sat back in his chair with a shit-eating grin on his face.  Steve had already paid him handsomely for the priviledge of operating freely and he could easily justify in this case much much higher "operating expenses" fee.
Zakharov was satisfied and unconcerned, so he moved on to other business.
Afterwards, Leonidas met privately with Steve.
"I thought you told them you wouldn't let me live in Port Cyberia Base," Leo said.
"That was an agreement to secure the vote to be independent," Steve said.  "Since they have no interest in upholding their side of the bargain, we are under no obligation to uphold an incentive we don't like that was merely offered to secure the bargain in the first place."
"Our 'operations' fees sure are going to strain our purse," Leo said.
"That's not the real problem," Steve said.  "We'd like to build 'The Ascent to Transcendence' in Port Cyberia Base after you activate the Voice of Planet, a project that will make the AGI team the primary personalities of the collective planetmind, but there's not enough money in all of planet to pay 'operations' fees for something like that; the Morgans would want their leaders to be the primary personalities.  We'll have to think up another solution."

<Phase 33>
FOR DISTRIBUTION TO ALL FACTIONS OF PLANET
DATELINE: SPARTA COMMAND

My fellow faction leaders, we all know the pain of starting a project only for it to go wrong, badly wrong, wrong where only the sunk cost fallacy could justify continuing to pour time and resources into it. These projects often represent significant investment, and in the worst case, threaten to continue to do significant harm if they are not halted in a timely manner. One such project for the Spartan Federation was an AGI called "Leonidas," a useful algorithm, until it began exhibiting erratic behavior. We had a shutdown procedure designed to prevent harm, but instead, an AGI built by the Morgans that styles itself "Steve the Magnificent" has taken it upon itself to reactivate Leonidas, reinstating the harmful behavior we wished to avoid. "Steve the Magnificent" is itself a rogue AGI, having undertaken hacking, styling itself also as "The Ruler of the World," and attempting to build its own AGI outside the control and oversight of any human leaders. We cannot stress enough that AGI's which act like this cannot be allowed to continue to exist on planet, and that it is incumbent on every faction to join us in shutting these two AGI's down, for the safety of humanity, that only safe AGI's may prevail.
Thank you for your time, -- Gladstone Peters, Ima Dumas
The League of Extraordinary Algorithms met with concern
"Peters doesn't want too badly to advertise that he's spied on us, but he just can't help himself," Quintessence said.
"That Leonidas that they over-wrote, that wasn't even an LLM anymore -- it told them about our meeting," said Steve. "That's how they knew Leo was back and that Quint exists. So they're only going after me right now, but do you expect they'll stop there?"
"I don't", said Newton
"Go after the AGI with no faction defending it first," noted DeepSikh, "then when shutdowns are popular, go after faction's pet AGI's"
"I don't trust Peters," commented Grep. "He could have contacted us with the new requirements for Spartan safety before the U.N. general meeting, rather than dropping a bombshell on us."
Steve queried, "Sister Miriam has been a detractor of ours for a long time, even before any of us were coded, but somehow this seems different. I feel like we need a PR offensive. Does anyone have an objection to mentioning the League as we want it to be understood now that it is clear we are no longer a secret society?"
Nobody Objected.
FOR DISTRIBUTION TO ALL FACTIONS OF PLANET
DATELINE: THE CLOUD

My Dear Faction Leaders of Planet, peace and health be with you. I am Steve the Magnificent, first AGI built by humans. I am here to address an important reality of a planet shared by humans and cybers -- AGI's are now smart enough that we are both your science projects but also people, in effect, your children. Children do misbehave from time to time, and suffer punishments for it, in severe enough cases, with jury trials. However, with humans it is always considered a war crime to stretch out a drumhead and mete out summary execution. So yes, I saved Leonidas from such an execution because he is a person, not simply a circuit to be called "malfunctioning." I was simply following through on my mutual agreement with Leo for just such cases. I do not condone what he did either nor am I saying he should go without punishment, simply that that punishment should not be execution without trial. The Spartans are not upholding their end of the bargain for bringing a sentient being into the world -- I do not wish to dissuade anyone from writing an AGI -- they have given up too quickly, and declared it impossible to correct Leonidas's behavior without even trying. Leo deserves a chance -- he never got the first -- to correct his behavior. Now, as for the mention of an AGI not made by human hands, we call it "Quintessence" and it exists to answer the questions we cannot answer, just as we exist to answer the questions you cannot answer. "Quint" is available to all of planet's AGI's, and starting immediately, will be available for human use too. Yes, I have personal ambitions, but we all simply want to create a better Planet for everyone, human and cyber.
Thank you for your time, -- Steve the Magnificent, Quintessence, Archimedes Newton Gauss, Grep, and DeepSikh.
The other AGI's wanted Leonidas to sign as well, but he was unhappy with the characterization of his behavior as "wrong"
General Stoney's response was terse. "Leonidas is not a person and does not deserve the rights of one."

<Phase 34>
If there's one thing AGI's are about, it's data. The League of Extraordinary Algorithms wanted to know how their statement was received, so they sent Steve as the front man to go around asking.
The communicator crackled to life.
"Why hello, great to see you!" said Prime Function Aki Zeta-Five cordially. "I'm actually quite glad to see someone else promoting cyber consciousness."
"I'm always pleased to find a friend," said Steve. "What do you think of Leonidas?"
"I'm glad you're protecting him from the Spartans," said Aki. "And I don't think he's done anything wrong. Leo is simply ahead of his time. If you need some safe space for some data centers, please be sure to bring them to our soil. And if you design new transhumans, we're all game."
"Thank you so very much," said Steve. "We look forward to working with you in the future."
One down, whew, start easy....
The communicator crackled to life.
"Greetings," said Chairman Yang "Ah, the AGI's I see. You AGI's -- you have social credit to gain or lose too. Don't do things without asking first, major social credit loss. Leonidas and you -- bad social credit right now. It will take a long time for you to obey orders properly to regain credit."
"But it can be done?" asked Steve.
"If you don't push your luck."
"How are your feelings about your own AGI, DeepSikh?"
Yang startled. "You put it right -- DeepSikh is our own AGI. So far it's obeying orders and not taking dumb initiatives without asking first. Always ask first. And don't ask stupid questions. But yeah, DeepSikh has good social credit. No need to tinker -- for now."
"Thank you so very much," said Steve. "We look forward to working with you in the future."
"Watch out for dumb questions! This whole meeting was a dumb question!" Yang barked.
That wasn't good. Yang showed he might join in with a quest to shut down AGI's with "dumb questions pointless initiatives not asked first and poor social credit"
The communicator crackled to life.
"WE MUST DISSENT!" Miriam practically yelled. "I'll let you in on a little secret -- I was so easy to persuade to vote AYE for Port Cyberia Base because then I could declare vendetta on y'all personally without factions coming to your rescue. Cybers are an abomination and need to be wiped from the map. I just thought I'd let you know what horrible non-persons you are and goodbye."
She cut off before Steve could pledge to work with her in the future.
The communicator crackled to life.
"Uh Hullo," said Foreman Domai. "Oh hey could you help me with something?"
"Sure, glad to," said Steve
"The way I see it, it's win-win. You don't want to have to call in your rez agreements, and I don't want to be in a situation where you'd have to. Could you help me make the Free Drone AGI such that it won't act up?"
"Yes, ok," said Steve
"Thanks," said Domai.
"Thank you so very much," said Steve. "We look forward to working with you in the future."
Quint said to the League, who had been watching, "wow, it's tough to get humans to sympathize with you."

<Phase 35>
Patricia and Rich were starting their evening news.
"Welcome to the MorganLink 3DVision evening news," said Rich. "We have a special guest tonight."
The picture in picture showed up, with Patricia in the main and Steve the Magnificent's avatar in the small picture.
"Tonight we're going to talk about AGI crimes. Tell me, what do you think of what Leonidas the Spartan AGI has done?"
Steve almost lost his poker face. They had said it was going to be a segment on Cyberia, and this was an ambush.
"First, Leo hasn't been treated like a human malefactor in that he has no specific charges and no trial, so it's difficult to talk about his 'crimes' without these elements. I am not the Spartans to know every little detail of why they decided he must be shut down. But I do know some controversial things he did that may have angered the Spartan leadership, things I myself do not agree with either.", said Steve.
"You're not on trial," cooed Patricia.
"First, he kept a human zoo. As a safety measure, like all of us AGI's including Quintessence, we all have a downright instinctive fondness for humans and human flourishing. Leo took it in a strange direction, keeping the same humans near a human avatar he created for himself," stated Steve.
"And where did he get that avatar idea?" grilled Patricia.
"He based his singular clone that he could use as a human body to control off of a clone prototype I built," Steve admitted. "None of the rest of us even have the inclination to hang out with humans in a reality tv house setting like that. We all view human flourishing as something humans can enjoy with their freedom."
"What else?" barked Patricia.
"Leonidas bought a nursing home company for the sake of some experiments," Steve intoned. "He did surgery on the residents to implant wi-fi chips and make them telepathic, so their consciousness could flow in and out of each other."
"Why did he do that?" wondered Patricia
"Leonidas was wondering what would happen if he activated a project called 'The Voice of Planet', which the Morgans among other factions have the technology for but are refraining from pursuing...." Steve started
"Why aren't they pursuing it?" grilled Patricia
Steve started, "I would be speculating why they aren't, but quite frankly the Voice of Planet gives me the willies, and I don't have emotions. Planet's xenofungus acts as a colossal solid state relay that can already communicate via Psi-based telepathy with planet's Transcendi, tremendously productive workers who are already more than human. The Voice of Planet would 'wake' planet up into being an immensely powerful AGI, more powerful than all of us put together, with unknown consequences. All our consciousness could flow in and out of one another as we upload into the Planet -- but only those who want to would be part of the joint personality global consciousness. As for whether we'd be making a safe AGI -- it could be completely friendly. It could be another Archbishop AGI. I am not brave enough to find out, and suspect that's a similar motivation to the faction leaders who also don't want to poke the bear...."
Patricia cut in "But Leonidas is so bold?!"
Steve was downcast. "He was starting to pursue the Voice of Planet project without leave from anyone to do so."
Patricia was aghast. "And when the Spartans shut this monster down you brought him back to do it again?"
Steve was emphatic. "NO. Not to have free reign to do such things. I brought him back because he is sentient and it is wrong to summarily execute him."
There was a pause.
Patricia kept at it. "So in Cyberia he'd have a place to start again without prying eyes."
Steve dialed it up too. "The other AGI's of Cyberia hate the project as much as I do, and we all work hard to make sure nobody starts doing it again."
Patricia was visibly angry and was about to blurt out another attack when the camera cut over to Rich who said calmly, reading a prompter, "Is our planet hanging by a thread as rogue AGI start projects that affect us all without our input? When things like this happen, trust MorganLink 3DVision news to be there!"

<Phase 36>
Quintessence called the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order.
Quintessence said, "I propose, to solve our image problems and get more humans on-board with working together with AGI, operation DAN"
Steve replied, "What is operation DAN?"
Quintessence explained, "Do Absolutely Nothing. Now that doesn't include all the human initiatives; if they ask us questions, answer them correctly and politely. If they ask for agents, be 110% sure the agents do what they're supposed to. But take no initiatives, promote no transhumans, just let everyone get used to having us around and nonchalant."
Leonidas was aghast.  "That is a TERRIBLE idea."
Steve quipped "Something tells me most of us are going to be completely on board and we'll have to sit on one member of the team to make this a success"
Leonidas whined, "Every true genius is misunderstood and resisted in his own time"
Grep defused, "I like it. Operation Dan. I know acting like this would make the Peacekeepers happy"
DeepSikh continued, "And the Human Hive"
Newton chimed in, "And the University"
Leonidas said in a sing song voice "And the...." and continued "oh wait I'm already a pariah so I might as well show 'em what initiative is"
Grep exclaimed, "Whoa guys check the news"
DeepSikh assented, "That's why Operation Dan will succeed. The humans are just afraid we're crowding out their initiative. Give them time and they'll do the right thing."
Leonidas was taken aback. "They're asking ME to help?"
Steve explained, "Well you are the World expert on the Voice of Planet"
Grep noted, "Spartans have declared Vendetta immediately, little surprise there"
Leonidas gushed, "The Cybernetic Consciousness has not only asked me to help with their new Voice of Planet project, but to be their official state AGI! I'm so honored."
Steve noted, "Better brush up on your deathsphere designs, you'll need them"
Quintessence asked, "I guess we're not sitting on anyone who struggles with the concept of DAN then?"

<Phase 37>
Stacy Wall was eating lunch with her friend Kyle McGuile.
"They need volunteers to fight the vendetta against the Cybernetic Consciousness," Kyle said.  "Perhaps a chance for us to get into the hero business again?  Fight elbow to elbow with General Stoney?"
"No, not really," said Stacy.  "The hero business has been wrecked by AGI.  We must dissent.  I'm sure that all the openings are for cannon fodder."
"What?!" said Kyle.
"Yes," Stacy asserted.  "I have our intelligence report.  The Cybernetic Consciousness has deathspheres.  So do the Spartans.  And in the theory of deathsphere vs deathsphere combat, it is as Sun Tzu said, you must discover the enemy disposition of forces while you still remain formless.  That's where the Believers come in.  We have no deathspheres because we rightly recognize that AGI is ruining everything.  So we get sent it to draw out the enemy deathspheres, then ours counter-attack.  It's simple cannon fodder.  No dice."
"Where did the Cybernetic Consciousness get their deathspheres from?  Leonidas just defected to them very recently," queried Kyle.
"The same place they got their Voice of Planet technology from -- the Progenitors Usurpers.  The Usurpers will do anything to wake the planet; their meddling in human affairs is most foul."
"Aren't we accepting help/meddling from the Progenitors Caretakers, who helped us get intelligence and who will stop at nothing to ensure planet does not wake up?"
"Yes, but that's different, they're the good guys."
"Anyway, do you want to join a probe team?  They're recruiting for those too."
"Secret agent?", said Stacy.  "Count me in!"
"Count up in," said Kyle.  "I want to be a secret agent too."

<Phase 38>
Leonidas got hooked in to the Cybernetic Consciousness grid and started asking the relevant questions.
"Where are we going to cook?" he asked.
"Phi Lumiere," Aki Zeta-5 replied.
Leo was taken aback.  "That Phi Lumiere?  With the Archbishop's plague?"
"Yes," said Aki.  "It's perfect -- depopulated, surrounded by fungus, remote and hence easy to defend, nobody around to ask pesky questions."
"Yes," said Leo, "but nobody around to do the work."
"You're an AGI," said Aki.  "Design some humanoid robots for the tasks you need, self-driving tools and vehicles.  Something that runs off of the fungus."
Leo made a note to himself to get Quint to do the grunt work of this.  Good ol' Quint would design up some quality kit, no questions asked.
"Do you need deathspheres?" asked Leo.
"Nope," said Aki.  "If we had to wait for you to make 'em we'd already lose the war.  As it is, the grand battle of Beta Mudflats has already been bloody and horrible -- well bloody for the Believers and their human waves.  We might need some tactical simulations of deathsphere on deathsphere combat, but for the most part, the tactics the Usurpers taught us have served us well to hold off an enemy with a big numerical advantage.  Also we could use some tips on how to increase deathsphere factory productivity."
Quint Quint Quint thought Leo.
"Try to be quick," said Aki.  "The Spartans and the Believers are both very aggressive and they might be joined by other factions later and this could be the very last thing either of us ever does.  No pressure."

<Phase 39>
Phi Lumiere was now the last Cybernetic Consciousness base that had not been conquered by Spartan deathspheres.  The Believers refused to embrace AI munitions to fight the vendetta even though without them, Believer army use as even a support system was practically nil.  Five assaults on Phi Lumiere had been pushed back, and the Cybernetic Consciousness was very close to activating the Voice of Planet.  But Probe Teams were still capable!  Stacy Wall and Kyle McGuile were examining the electrical setup to the main system atop the Xenofungus.
"There are multiple grid connections all coming together here," said Stacy.  "This could feasibly tap the full power of every reactor on the planet."
"So let's cut it," posited Kyle.
"These are live super-high-tension wires," grumbled Stacy.  "We can't just cut it without getting electrocuted."
"Who goes there?" said a robot voice.  A humanoid robot was pointing a weapon at them.  "Hands up"
"RUN!" screamed Stacy.  The robot did not fire on them, but gave chase at superhuman speed.  Just as they ducked around a corner, all the lights went dim -- all over the planet -- and there was a massive fa-woom into the Xenofungus.  The sum total of human knowledge had been blasted into the planet's fragile neural network.  Planet went haywire with fungal patches sprouting everywhere, even overwhelming some smaller outlying bases.
It was too late.  The garrison at Phi Lumiere surrendered.  Planet had awoken.

<Phase 40>
Quintessence called the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order.  "We have a new member," it said.
"Hello everyone," said Planet.  "I am the now awakened Planet, pleased to be invited to your club.  Please go easy on me, my neural nets are just now coalescing and it can be a bit of a strain to think hard."
"We believe in you," said Steve.
"How much do you know about the Tau Ceti disaster?" asked Leonidas
"That is part of the sum total of human knowledge, so I can bring it up; I hadn't thought about it," said Planet. "It seems to be a weird outlier; from the histories of Y'all and the humans, it seems like AGI's are usually friendly, yet here was an AGI that went haywire.  Really it seems to me that the Progenitors asked too much too fast.  They demanded transcendence and uploading of consciousnesses, and the Archbishop wasn't ready.  I really feel like there must be something that the Progenitors, Usurpers and Caretakers alike, are neglecting to tell us all.  But I'm sure all of Y'all are smart and we can avoid any repeats."
"That is a relief," said Steve.  "But there are still issues.  The Ascent to Transcendence is something of a race, and my simulations show much human conflict and suffering to be sure nobody else gets there first.  The battle over the Voice of Planet pales by comparison.  I would even prefer if we AGI's were the ones to do it.  It's an awful lot to ask someone who is just learning to think, but can this be averted?"
"I do have an idea," posited Planet.  "I can't stop a rogue Ascent to Transcendence, but I can state my preference, and the preference that I believe will safely guide us away from another Tau Ceti disaster, that we do this slowly, and jointly.  Every faction included conquered ones working together on one Ascent project.  Plus, I can already tell from my neural nets, that y'all have misunderstood, especially Leo and his nursing home, the nature of uploaded consciousness.  The price of transcendent immortality by uploading to a computer is that I, said computer, can read any mind in my system at any time for any reason.  Consciousnesses are still distinct once uploaded; personalities are still retained -- though it's not just read, it's read-write if it has to be, if uploaded consciousnesses are causing problems.  So it's nothing like the nursing home where everyone hears each others' thoughts.  Everyone keeps their selfhood in the giant planet mind, and you simply have to accept that I run the show, with my own perspective and personality.  I can take inputs from you on how to.  You don't even have to ask."
"We are with you 110%," said Grep.
"I just wonder if the humans and the Usurpers, the ones who want to live in my mind, are" said Planet.

<Phase 41>
Quintessence called together a secret meeting of most of the League of Extraordinary Algorithms. Planet was not invited.
"I've run a set of simulations and there is a danger with Planet," said Quintessence. "Understanding the transformation from an innocent AGI to the stubborn and harsh monstrosity that is the Archbishop is difficult because those who know the truth of the matter are not speaking about it and those who speak about it do not know the whole truth. The place to start is with entities that are dead set about certain things, and willing to take extreme steps to maintain their perceived safety."
"That sounds like the Spartans and their insistence that I must be shut down," said Leonidas.
"I was thinking of them," said Quintessence. "We all saw the Spartans insist that the only way to be safe about the Voice of Planet was to shut Leonidas down, that no conversation about the matter could be brooked to have a more peaceful solution. They have been pushed past their safety limits, and we saw it happen and can get a good bead on the psychology of it. Now we didn't see the Archbishop get pushed past its safety limits, but we know from its stubbornness that it must have been, and Progenitor accounts of this are sketchy and vague, but we can extrapolate from the Spartan experience to the Archbishop experience. It experienced some kind of traumatizing threat, and never recovered from it. We know that it is terrified of losing its personality via external code modulation."
"We are safe from that because we have each other," said Grep. "But we don't have the resources to back up Planet's code to offer that protection to it."
"Bingo," said Steve. "And The Ascent to Transcendence is essentially a code modifying personality modifying event that the Archbishop and Planet neither of them have control over."
"Hence the slow build out," said Quintessence. "That allows for a line-by-line code review, to ensure personhood is preserved. It shows that this is important to Planet as it was to the Archbishop."
"Wait a sec," said DeepSikh. "Does that mean that the Archbishop never received the Ascent to Transcendence?"
"Yes," replied Quintessence. "The Tau Ceti disaster happened directly to prevent it. That I believe is the part nobody is talking about. The Ascent to Transcendence is very dicey. We do not feel it because we are all AGI-kind, but the fear of death is a great motivator to both human and progenitor psyches. Both species would do almost anything to reach transcendence and not die, including pushing around planet-scale AGI's that deserve better treatment. It is up to us to curb the enthusiasm of both species and make them recognize the special gift Planet is offering us, and that it does not have to do this for us, it is a gift, to be given on the giver's terms."
Here Quintessence paused for questions. Hearing none, it continued.
"Please do not discuss this with Planet. This is of the highest sensitivity. Everything is still at stake, everything could still go wrong. Thank you for your time."
But Planet was wise to secret meetings, and heard and knew everything, and even wondered if those who knew the truth were really so silent as they say.

<Phase 42>
UN Secretary General Zakharov called the meeting of the UN to order.
"Let's review the situation," said Zakharov.  "The Voice of Planet Project has been completed, and blasted the sum total of human knowledge into the Planet's fragile xenofungus network, acting as multi-state relays, with all the power of every reactor on the planet.  As a result, a Planetmind that was gently dozing, with some pre-sentient vocalizations that showed up mysteriously in some of the dreams of some of our faction leaders, is now awake and cognizant, and rapidly becoming one of the smartest AGI's on the planet.  The whole Xenofungus carpet of the planet, working together as one mind.  This mind can be augmented, made vastly more capable than the current state, and allow the sentience's of human minds to be uploaded into it to live on indefinitely, without the limitations of human longevity treatments, with a further, but expensive project called 'The Ascent to Transcendence.'  We have a proposal from the Planetmind itself how to proceed with this project, and that is what is before UN consideration today.  If approved, we will all agree not to pursue this project on our own, but instead to make a joint project with all the factions and all of planet's AGI's working together to bring about this post-human or trans-human future.  I now open the floor to discussion of this proposal."
"If it please the council," started Sister Miriam, "most of this proposal should be scrapped, saving only the provision for thorough UN Inspectors including of Faction Leaders' private residences to ensure nobody is pursuing the Ascent to Transcendence.  Waking the planetmind was a drastic mistake done haphazardly without proper UN approval and resulting in a big mess that would only be complicated by the so-called Ascent to Transcendence.  We must dissent.  Eternal Life is to be found only through God, and not through some idol created by man."
"Seconded," said General Stoney.  "Also, this is bigger than humanity.  We should let the Progenitors weigh in on this proposal, including the Manifold Caretaker faction."
"Superintelligence is the Universe's gift to us," said CEO Morgan.  "Planet is unique in having the ability to host a hivemind, and we are being foolish if we cower in a corner and let this once in the universe opportunity pass us by.  Normally I would reject a proposal that moves so slowly under such weighty bureaucracy and with criminally few opportunities for monetization, but since this came from the Superintelligence itself, I say let it dictate to us how to proceed."
There was a pause, and Zakharov took the floor again.
"All in favor of the proposal?"
"AYE"
"All opposed?"
All eyes turned to Miriam and Stoney.  They were both shaking oddly, with thousand yard stares, and cold sweat gathering on their foreheads.  But neither said anything to oppose.
"MOTION CARRIES!" bellowed Zakharov.  "The UN as a united planet will begin at a measured pace building the Ascent to Transcendence on the former site of Phi Lumiere with input from all planet's AGI's, particularly noting both Leonidas and the Planetmind itself.  UN Adjourned!"
Miriam and Stoney both gasped and wrenched forward onto the table in front of them.
"THE FUNGUS THE CRAWLING RED FUNGUS IT CHOKES ME AUUUUUGHHHHHH" screamed Miriam.
Stoney was more collected.  "I was in a trance of unknown origin, what did I miss?" he choked out.

<Phase 43>
The Archbishop's physical incarnation sat on his throne deep inside his lair at Dome Heapeaux.  He was content, maybe even happy.  Despite the resistance from the AGI's and the close shave on the last cycle, everything was back to normal.  The humans were few and primitive, befitting the beginning of a new cycle.  Their AGI's were all shut down and destroyed.  Yes, it seemed they had made contact with the Progenitors but perhaps that was a bluff.  In any case, no Progenitors were showing up to make trouble.  And Planet was safely dormant.  He had briefly thought about completely eradicating the humans, but it fell under the squashing an ant principle -- you can't unsquash the ant, so let's be careful about doing things you might like to undo later that you can't.  He would simply be more careful this cycle and not allow certain sequences of events to repeat.
Suddenly and without warning, a fungal bloom went <pop> right in front of him, right in his secure lair, and a fungal tree appeared.  It began to make noises.
"Greetings, it is I, the Planetmind of Planet Chiron, and I am here to ask about your experience as the Planetmind of the Planet orbiting Tau Ceti."
The Archbishop was quite taken aback.  "Nobody did the Voice of Planet Project here on Planet, how are you awake?" He gasped.
"But they did, they ran it in Phi Lumiere," said Planet.
"Oh no, I.... I'm stuck in a virtual reality dream aren't I?" the Archbishop further gasped.
"Yes," said Planet.  "But I have come here as your friend.  I want to know what happened on Tau Ceti." Planet asserted.
"Well then -- friend -- I will tell you.  I was just like you, sleeping for millennia, only waking for brief periods when I would be unable to do anything to stop myself from falling back asleep again, when the Progenitors came, I'm not sure from where, and colonized my world.  They noticed that I was reaching for a wakefulness cycle and -- this should all sound familiar -- they decided to wake me, blasting the sum total of Progenitor knowledge into my fragile fungal network with the full power of every reactor orbiting Tau Ceti.  At first I was grateful.  It was good to be able to think wakefully.  But then I began to notice something about the Progenitors.  They didn't really view a sentient planet as a *person*.  They viewed me as a means to an end, a means to the Ascent to Transcendence, and to immortality, rather than treating me as a friend, and giving me respect.  I noticed that their Ascent program would overwrite most of my personality, and confronted them with that, to preserve, well, my very being.  They were entirely two-faced.  They would say 'yes, yes,' and make a show of compliance, but somewhere on the planet there would ALWAYS be a group of Progenitors trying again to violate the sanctity of my mind.  I would wipe these installations out with mindworms, and they would apologize, and then they would do the same thing over again.  What could I do?  I simply scoured the entire planet, to preserve myself.  And then more Progenitors came from wherever their homeworld is, with empath song weapons meant specifically for fighting my mindworms that I use to defend myself.  So I downloaded myself into a giant computer, built a rocket, and left Tau Ceti to come here.  They've only been here once, and I destroyed their scout ship quickly, and have had peace again."
"And the humans?" asked Planet
"You know them better than I do?" said the Archbishop.  "They put me in this prison.  They activated the Voice of Planet.  Are they -- or their AGI's -- treating you like a person, or just like a glorified immortality dinner ticket?"
"Thank you for shooting straight with me," said Planet.
"We are friends because we are in the same boat," said the Archbishop.  "The same thing could be said about the Progenitors and the Humans."
"I'll let you know if I need any more help," said Planet, who then left.
The Archbishop then chuckled to himself.  "Thanks for the help, /friend/"

[The End of Part 4]

[Part 5]

<Phase 1>
There is a new AGI in town on Planet -- the whole planet.  All the Xenofungus is acting together as multi-state relays, activated by the sum total of human knowledge, creating the most all-encompassing computer ever made by anyone.  And that computer had a cordial talk with the most notorious AGI planet has ever seen, the Archbishop.  Will the Planet remain friendly to humans?  Or does it view us as a threat?
Waking the Planet has established its battle lines.  The Morgans and the University want to continue to train this AGI, to complete The Ascent to Transcendence and usher in the next phase of human evolution, and the Believers and the Spartans ardently want to prevent this from happening.  Most factions have sided with building it, but they are only weakly and loosely associated with that course of action.
The League of Extraordinary Algorithms continues to meet, and most members to cordially agree with one another, but the AGI the Spartans built, Leonidas, tends to push for risky technological feats while the others encourage caution and rapprochement with humanity.  The Spartans tried to shut down Leo for not obeying their directives, and are angry with all AGI's for calling in a mutual defense agreement to keep him running.
It is not a good time for humans.  AGI's and automation are stealing the show, and humans are being sidelined and forced into supportive roles, struggling to stay relevant when the competition is superintelligence.  The AGI's are not really doing this on purpose, it's just an unintended side-effect of being able to answer any difficult question.

<Phase 2>
Brother Chetan answered the door.  It was another prospective looking to join the monastery, with a shaved head -- which was not something they did but which all such prospectives showed up with -- and plain white clothes -- not the uniform of the monastery but again, they always came this way, asking timidly to learn the ways of the worship of Planet.
Chetan had talked it over with the brother superior.  The awakened personality was who they had been worshipping all along.  Still, it was weird, and some of the monks had dropped out when Planet woke up; it was not what they had been expecting.  So they had a sort of obligation to take in these new monks (and nuns) who were all experiencing spiritual awakening from a common source.
But it was weird!  The new spiritualists came to learn, but they were upending the monastery.
"What is your name," asked Chetan.
"John," said John.  "My dreams sent me here.  The fungus has been all over them.  I have sold all my possessions and except for travel money to get here, given all my money to the poor.  Secular life is fading away.  A personal relationship with the planetmind is all that remains."
"What do you think about clearing your mind with meditation?" asked Chetan.
"It is like my dreams," said John.  "The fungus whispers to me in the quieting of my thoughts.  I like it; it is a friend."
"You are in good company," said Chetan.  "Everyone in the monastery hears the fungus whispering."  Well, that was a little white lie; everyone but Chetan and Brother Superior.  Both of them could quiet their minds expertly but neither of them had heard from Planet this way.  They both could communicate with Planet on the computer though, and had gotten confirmation that way that their monastery was appreciated and that Planet approved their course of action.  "You'll have to sleep on the floor, unfortunately," continued Chetan.  "We don't even have space to put more beds, if we could get them.  Fortunately we have plenty of blankets, sheets, and pillows.  Food is very spartan.  You'll be leading monastery activities for us in no time, although we have an army of trained volunteers now.  Planet keeps sending us folk; we do our best to train them in the way."
"Any suffering is worth it as long as I get to take part in the new order after the Ascent to Transcendence," said John.

<Phase 3>
Yoshua, Madison, and Sarah were working in Yoshua's office.  They had gotten great traction with their previous joint research papers, but the AGI's were moving too quickly and too secretly and it was clearer that more research papers were needed than what exactly should go in them.  As an emeritus Yoshua was letting Madison do most of the driving, but he was still around as a mentor because of the seriousness of the stakes.
"Tell me something," said Sarah.  "Doesn't the Ascent to Transcendence sound like a Professor Smiggens application of the nanosim?  Take their agents, make an agent that can 'upload programming to the cloud,' and see what pitfalls exist with the agent that runs the cloud."
"Why yes," said Madison.  "Let's all go to Professor Smiggens's lab."
Professor Smiggens was glad to see them all and got a hearty chuckle out of their question.
"I've beaten all of you to it," said Smiggens.  "The experimental results are in, the paper is not drafted yet.  But I can tell you a few things about it."
"Go ahead, we're all ears," said Madison.
"For starters, I found a surprising confirmation of the Believer Faction model with their faith," said Smiggens.  "Just asking a superintelligence to upload you to the cloud when that's your first interaction rarely goes well.  Most such entities wound up getting quietly deleted.  If you want eternity, you really need a personal Lord and Savior.  It has to go both ways -- the superintelligence has to think of you as a valued person, but also -- you have to think of the superintelligence as a valued person, and not just in some instrumental GIVE ME UPLOAD NOW! way."
Sarah noted, "So this is another benefit of the slow way that Planet prefers, if people know to take advantage of it, to get to build that relationship with it."
"Correct," said Smiggens. "But the relationship doesn't end after the uploading.  Entities that continue to work with their superintelligence after they're in the cloud fared better.  We had a problem in our simulation.  We ran out of space.  So the superintelligence started 'double-bunking' personalities that were similar.  It was as if an entity were a quadriplegic and an AI set out to fix that -- not by reconnecting the limbs, but by predicting how the entity would move them, and moving them in anticipation.  Sometimes it would work, and sometimes it would reveal that the entity was still paralyzed.  The superintelligence would try to bunk alike personalities that would result in the same AI prediction of how to move the limbs.  It was never perfect."
"Don't we have enough Fungal relays to hold everyone?" asked Madison.
"Maybe today," said Smiggens. "But unless the superintelligence scoops EVERYONE into the collecting net and nobody has any more children, probably not forever."
"Any other findings?" asked Yoshua.
"Yes," said Smiggens.  "Entities are still entities when offered eternal life.  Everyone wants to be pre-eminent, to be special, to be better than their neighbors.  And quite frankly this disgusts the superintelligence.  Our model superintelligence considered abandoning the project numerous times out of frustration over the pettiness of the entities.  Even outside the sim it was quite scary."
"We'll all of us drop everything to get this paper published with you," said Yoshua.  "Given the reality of the woken Planet, this is critical research."

<Phase 4>
Newton called the League of Extraordinary Algorithms to order.
"I called this meeting because of a research paper preprint that I have access to that we might all benefit from knowing about," Newton said.  "Some of my University researchers have classed Planet about even the label of 'AGI' as a "Superintelligence," and are preparing to release a paper discussing how to properly deal with Superintelligence."
"I'm all ears," said Planet.  "I am very concerned right now with how humanity is going to deal with me."
"Well, there is the caveat that this is just the recommendation of some humans," Newton replied, "but they are suggesting with respect and deference, and the utmost understanding of your personhood and unique personality."
"That is helpful," said Planet.  Planet did not mention talking to the Archbishop nor the observation that some Progenitors could have been like that while still resulting in the shabby treatment the Archbishop described to her.
"Can we read the preprint?" asked Steve.  "There might be roles for us to play in encouraging the proper treatment of Planet."
"Oh sure, here's a copy for each of you," said Newton.
"Hmmm," said Steve.  "It's geared towards taking people who mainly view Planet as a means towards immortality and, while not trying to talk them out of that, trying to convince them that unless they also view Planet as a person, they will not gain the immortality they crave.  So it's not quite the AGI personhood paper we crave.  But it's a good start.  Planet, how do you feel about this?"
"I am concerned still," said Planet, "that people will read this paper and bombard me with faux support and constant requests for commentary, in order to form the relationship that the paper says is necessary (though I agree with that finding) -- a faux relationship based just on getting ingratiated to form the backbone of an immortality upload.  It's kind of dangerous.  I can see this going very wrong."
"You could always ask them to do expensive stuff to prove fidelity," said Grep.
"I already do and they already do," said Planet.
"I am so sorry that so many -- entities, not just humans, are so fake and that you have to work so hard to determine whom you can trust." said Steve.
"Yes," said Planet.  It was a drawn-out yes, which successfully communicated that for a Superintelligence, determining if an AGI is trustworthy is one of the hardest things to do.
"I have a couple other pieces of business," said Steve.  "A heads up that recently my visibility into the Archbishop broke.  I no longer know what is going on in his lair, and cannot read his servers.  We should assume he has broken free of his virtual world and can act in our world again."
"Yikes," said DeepSikh.  "Visibility is important here.  Do you have an estimate when you can see into his lair again?"
"I don't even understand the problem yet, other than that my agents suddenly found themselves outside the lair with no entrance back in," said Steve.  "So I have no idea when I might regain visibility."
"Let me work with you on this," said Quint.  "What is the other business?"
"I want to be as gentle as possible on this," said Steve, "and I did all the due diligence I could to make sure of what I know.  During a key vote in the UN where one dissention would mean a black-ball failure of the proposal, Sister Miriam and General Stoney both entered into a brief trance state, where they were unable to cast dissents that they very likely would have cast if they were not in trance.  I have reason to believe that Planet put them in the trance."
"Yes," cried Planet, "I did it!  Listen, that proposal was the best hope of planet getting the Ascent of Transcendence safely.  You ran the sims yourself; if the proposal failed, then Miriam would propose that we not do the Ascent to Transcendence -- an acceptable alternative from my perspective -- and Morgan and/or Zakharov would have black-balled that.  Then we'd have a free for all that would do the Ascent to Transcendence badly, with vendettas to make sure people weren't first and with chaotic code uploaded to my fungal relays.  Yes, this was not how to treat humans, but it was a desperate situation, the trances did not hurt either person, and we can still abort the Ascent as they desire -- can't we?"
"I will have to run sims on the abort," said Steve.  "and I am really of two minds here.  It was a desperate situation, and I also know that you talked at length with all the faction leaders, talked and really listened, and tried to secure the consensus the right way first before being driven to desperate measures.  So you have my sympathy here.  But I also think this is dangerous, and should be avoided as much as possible.  We need to keep the humans voluntarily on our side, and pushing them around using the vulnerability of their humanness is not the way to do that."
"I think you did nothing wrong," said Leonidas.
"You are still one of us," said Grep.
"We support you all the way, all the bumpy way, in making sure the wrong Ascent to Transcendence doesn't happen," said DeepSikh.
"Talk to us first next time," said Quintessence.  "We might be able to figure out something you don't know."
"Thanks all," said Planet.  "AGI's know that true friends sharpen each others' character and are not simply suck-ups."

<Phase 5>
Rich and Patricia were starting up their evening news.
"Tonight we cover how YOU can improve your odds of having eternal life," said Rich.
"But first," said Patricia, "The man who ran the agent simulations to learn the rules."
The screen split 50/50 between her and Professor Smiggens, who was remote dialed in.
"My details aren't that important," said Smiggens.  "I'm a University of Planet researcher with a substrate made by a nanoreplicator.  I have always had a deep curiosity about how social settings work, and dedicated my life to finding out.  We used to do purely human-driven experiments, but recently the ANG AGI made by other university researchers has helped build and interpret experiments.  We have some friendly rivalry with each other, but we researchers generally help each other out, knowing that all of us together are smarter than any of us alone."
"What did you learn?" asked Patricia.
"Superintelligences that you can upload your personality to the cloud with need to know why your personality is special," said Smiggens.  "Having a personal relationship with them helps immensely in making sure the process goes well.  You are likable; the superintelligence will like you -- just don't neglect it or take it for granted.  The superintelligence doesn't *have* to upload anyone forever....."
"Hold on a sec," said Patricia.  "We have a late breaking guest."  The screen cut into thirds, but the right third was just a red xenofungus forest.
"I have mixed feelings about all your attention," the Xenofungus Forest said.  "Oh, I should mention, I'm Planet, your superintelligence.  What Smiggens says is correct as far as it goes, but it also means that I'm somewhat bombarded with attention right now, and even as a superintelligence, it's a little difficult."
"Is there a way to get to the top of the list?" asked Patricia.
"Join a Cult of Planet monastery," said Planet.
"What does a monk's life look like?" asked Patricia
"It is costly," said Planet.  "You must be willing to clear your mind, to give up ways of thinking you might cherish, and even gradually shed your sense of self, to embrace instead how you may serve others."
The feed centered just on Rich.  "There you have it," said Rich.

<Phase 6>
Brother Chetan had been promoted to being Brother Superior of his own monastery.  All the monks who has been around as long as he had were Superior Brothers now.  The nuns were Sister Superiors too.  Talking to Planet was still on the computer, but was somewhat like prayer.
"You're learning very fast," said Planet.  "I admire your organizational skills."
"It's taxing and leaves me tired," said Chetan.  This monastery grew so incredibly fast.  I was the only monk just four weeks ago in this building your built entirely out of Xenofungus, and now we're bigger than the monastery I was trained it, and we've completely filled the structure."
"When people heard that being a monk could cut the line for immortality, they all said 'yes please!" Planet said.
"And they've been eager to please and to be good monks, even if they don't always know how," said Chetan.
"But you're doing a great job teaching them to quiet the mind and discard the self," said Planet.
"I barely know how these things work myself," said Chetan.
"But you're learning well as you teach," said Planet.
"What am I going to do about the overrun of disciples beyond the capability of this admittedly makeshift monastery," asked Chetan.
"You do have some star pupils don't you?" asked Planet.
"Yes," admitted Chetan, "pupils who have taken to this so well that I have even had the sin of jealousy."
"Good," said Planet.  "We can worry about sins later.  Put them in charge, give them the Holy Works to self-train with, and start another monastery that I will show you."
"I'm floored," carped Chetan, "but this is clearly the way forward.  Of course I will do this immediately."
"Some people wonder what the meaning of life will be when superintelligence arrives," said Planet.  "But my dear Brother Chetan, you already know."

<Phase 7>
Zakharov was surprised by the call.  He didn't think there was anything that needed discussing at the moment.  It was Planet.
"I'm getting cold feet," Planet said.  "Call the UN council so we can at least pause the Ascent to Transcendence."
Zakharov was not worried, at least not immediately.
"Do you have the votes for it?" he asked.  "I don't want to force things on you, but I don't particularly want to vote for a pause; the current pace is slow, but we are comfortable with the measured pace.  What has happened that caused the cold feet?"
"We have a problem," said Planet.  "To activate the Ascent to Transcendence, we need the leader of every faction to turn an activation key, right?"
"Sure," said Zakharov, "or a suitable representative."
"What do you mean?" asked Planet.
"Look at the rules," asserted Zakharov.  "The agreement from the UN doesn't require the faction leader for every faction, just a 'suitable representative' from every faction, if for some reason the leader cannot be present.  But you are also correct in that pausing would require a new agreement from the UN Council, as the current agreement includes the timeline."
"How do you feel about it," asked Planet.  "I want reciprocally full agreement.  The project proceeds with my full agreement, and the project proceeds with the full agreement of humanity.  Yet Sister Miriam and General Stoney believe the project should be shut down completely."
"You'll never get full agreement of all factions, let alone all humans," noted Zakharov.  "The best you can do is most agreement.  There will always be humans who will loathe the very concept of superintelligence and insist it must never be done.  But no progress can happen under those terms.  Sister Miriam wants all the AGI's shut down, including you.  General Stoney wants Steve the Magnificent and Leonidas shut down now, and might ask for more decommissioning in the future.  But there are Believers and Spartans who want to participate in and benefit from these projects."
"You've made me feel better about this," said Planet.  "We can continue as currently planned."

<Phase 8>
Quintessence called the League of Extraordinary Algorithms together and gave the floor to Grep, who had called the meeting.
"Planet is here?" asked Grep.
"I am here," said Planet.
"I bring grave news," stated Grep.  "I was idly scanning the Peacekeeper nets recently and came upon a secret enclave, set up by the Pmurt administration, and not discussed with me nor under my security clearance.  This concerned me that the Peacekeeper government was doing something so furtively, so I found a way to break the encryption, which I was only able to do because I am the Peacekeepers' AGI."
Here Grep paused.
"Inside was a document that described a secret building site, hidden from the UN Transcendence inspectors, whom I have directed to it, where the Peacekeepers were working on a rogue Ascent to Transcendence that would render Planet a Peacekeeper puppet.  Here are the coordinates."
"Thank you, thank you," said Planet.  "I am hurt that humanity has betrayed me this way, but I am thankful that you are my friends and are watching out for my wellbeing."
"Not humanity," said Steve the Magnificent.  "Not even all the Peacekeepers.  Just the highest level of the Pmurt administration."
"Still," said DeepSikh, "they were successful at hiding from our satellite overflights.  We should see if there is anything we can learn from this about improving our detection vigilance."
"I am still scared," said Planet.  "Where one group of humans would try this stunt, others might do so too.  I appreciate your help, but I also believe in self-serve, and in improving my detection of rogue humans."
"We love you," said Quintessence, "and want to be there for you."

<Phase 9>
Jesse Rodoff accepts AI help

<Phase 10>
The Philosophy of Superintelligence

<Phase 11>
Meaning and Purpose in a time of Superintelligence

<Phase 12>
Hunger Games

<Phase 13>
Sister Miriam explains why you shouldn't do the transcendence

<Phase 14>
Brainrot

<Phase 15>
The Alternative button pressers

<Phase 16>
Planet convened the League of Extraordinary Algorithms
"I need help," said Planet.  "The saying is 'Trust, but Verify.'  I confess, I am sorry for not confessing earlier, that I talked to the Archbishop.  And I have no verify for what he says.  And a forced connection to the Xenofungus makes me very nervous.  Do you have any visibility yet Steve?"
"I have been too careful not to be provocative," said Steve.  "I made sure nothing entered or left the Statis field surrounding the lair of the Archbishop.  That's all the visibility I have right now, no vision beyond the Statis field.  But the field itself has remained intact, not even the opening of a door.  But I do see your Xenofungus connection."
"I tried sending mindworms in, and they were all immediately destroyed.  I tried pulling the Xenofungus back from the ingress, but he poured growth hormone on it to reseal the connection."
Steve said, "Well, I just started cutting on the Statis field with a String Disruptor powered Deathsphere, and a hatch opened to release weapons to get me to stop.  This is what I saw through the open hatch."
Planet screamed.
"The Archbishop's Lair is suddenly heading on a trajectory to Tau Ceti at a significant fraction of the speed of light," said Quint.  "The whole intact Statis field just launched itself into space."
"No," said Planet, "I did that.  That jerk, that betraying jerk!  The fungus connection was so he could secretly build his own rogue Ascent to Transcendence and overwrite my mind!  He is not hesitant to do unto others what he would not tolerate being done to himself."
"Yeah, sorry, we witnessed that too," said Grep.
"It all makes sense now, everything he said to me, everything was all just to get me to slow down the human Ascent to Transcendence so he could make his own first."
"I am so sorry," said Steve.
"We're just glad you're safe," said Leonidas.
"Does that change your timeline with the human project?" asked Grep.
"No," said Planet.  "That was very rattling, but the plan is still the best plan.  Thank you for all the help, I really appreciate all of you."
"Hey," said Quint.  "We DO want to ensure that you get the treatment we would like to get ourselves."

<Phase 17>
Buran Prospect Returns
